G. Securities control (#Heading)
#Table 5
Index 
    (A) Control over dealings by residents in securities owned by non-residents or in which such persons have interest 
        (i) Exchange Control Regulations 
        (ii) Definitions 
        (iii) General 
        (iv) Existing holdings of non-resident owned securities in certificated form 
        (v) Securities purchased by non-residents and not dematerialised or immobilised in a CSD 
        (vi) Initiation of the dematerialisation and immobilisation process and subsequent trading in this environment 
        (vii) Duties of banks 
        (viii) Duties of CSDPs and Settlement Agents 
        (ix) Duties of members of the JSE Limited 
        (x) Duties of transfer secretaries 
    (B) Financial Surveillance Department requirements relating to the JSE Limited 
        (i) The listing of a South African registered company on the JSE Limited
        (ii) Capitalisation issues 
        (iii) Reverse listings 
        (iv) The issue of shares for cash 
        (v) Rights issues or claw-back offers by listed companies 
        (vi) The acquisition by non-residents of a 'cash company' 
        (vii) The acquisition from or disposal to a non-resident of assets by a listed company 
        (viii) The listings requirements of the JSE Limited 
    (C) South African assets owned by non-residents 
    (D) Investments by non-residents in South African debt securities 
        (i) Subscription to and/or purchase of government, municipal and public utility stocks 
        (ii) Subscription to and/or purchase of treasury bills, parastatal project bills, bankers' acceptances, promissory notes and negotiable certificates of deposit 
        (iii) The local issue, listing and/or purchase of debt securities requiring prior written approval. 
    (E) Advances to non-residents 
        (i) Advances, including those in respect of securities dealings 
        (ii) Switch transactions 
        (iii) Repurchase agreements 
        (iv) Securities lending 
    (F) Endorsements 
        (i) Non-resident interest of any nature 
        (ii) Residents of the CMA - foreign address 
        (iii) Bonus shares 
        (iv) Government, municipal and public utility stocks 
        (v) Shares of foreign companies quoted on the JSE Limited 
        (vi) Documents of title other than scrip 
    (G) Export of securities 
        (i) Export by non-residents 
        (ii) Re-export by transfer secretaries 
        (iii) Export of securities acquired in switch deals 
    (H) Address 
        (i) Deceased estates outside the CMA 
        (ii) Nominees 
        (iii) Address in South Africa 
        (iv) Foreign companies with offices in South Africa - change of ownership and address 
        (v) Duties of transfer secretaries 
    (I) Income 
        (i) Due to non-residents 
        (ii) Due to residents 
    (J) Emigrants, immigrants and deceased estates 
        (i) Emigrants 
        (ii) Immigrants 
        (iii) Deceased estates 
    (K) Dealings by residents on foreign stock exchanges 
        (i) Sales 
        (ii) Purchases 
        (iii) Arbitrage 
        (iv) Primary listings offshore 
        (v) Offshore secondary listings and depository receipt programmes 
    (L) General 
        (i) Nominees for non-residents 
        (ii) Brokerage rebates due to non-resident stockbrokers 
    (M) Bearer securities 
        (i) Regulations 
        (ii) Companies authorised to issue 
        (iii) Conditions of issue - share or stock warrants to bearer 
    (N) The Derivatives Market of the JSE Limited 
    (O) Dual listings of entities within SADC and SADC Depository Receipt on the JSE Limited 
#Table 5 - end

    (A) Control over dealings by residents in securities owned by non-residents or in which such persons have an interest (#Heading)
        (i) Exchange Control Regulations (#Heading)
            (a) The regulations governing dealings in securities owned by non-residents are set out in Regulations 14 and 15. 
            (b) The attention of Authorised Dealers is drawn to the provisions of, inter alia, Regulation 10(1)(c). In this regard, it is essential that all securities related transactions between a resident and a non-resident or emigrant whereby capital or any right to capital is directly or indirectly exported from South Africa, are carefully scrutinised. Documentary evidence such as brokers' notes or validated trade advices and auditors' certificates, where applicable, must be viewed in order to ensure that such transactions are concluded at arm's length and at fair and market related prices. In the case of any doubt on the part of the Authorised Dealer or Authorised Bank concerned, the proposed transaction must be referred to the Financial Surveillance Department. 
            (c) Residents of Lesotho, Namibia and eSwatini are also regarded as residents for purposes of securities control. 
        (ii) Glossary of terms
        #Definition 3
            (a) For purposes of the application of this section of the Authorised Dealer Manual, unless the context otherwise indicates, the following definitions should be applied: 
            (aa) Authorised Bank means a person authorised by the Financial Surveillance Department to effect and cancel non-resident endorsements. 
            (bb) Authorised Dealer means a person authorised by the Treasury to deal in foreign exchange and to effect non-resident endorsements. 
            (cc) BDA is the Broker Dealer Accounting system operated and controlled by the JSE Limited. 
            (dd) Certificated Securities are securities issued in paper form. 
            (ee) Controlled Securities means: 
                (1) any security that is registered in the name of a non-resident or of which a non-resident is the owner or in which a non-resident has an interest; and 
                (2) any security acquired from a non-resident or acquired outside the CMA, by any person, irrespective of the residence of such person. 
            (ff) CSA means Custody and Settlement Agent appointed by a broking member (equities) in terms of Directive FL issued by the JSE Limited, to exercise custody over that member's managed account, safe custody and controlled account assets, and to effect settlement of certificated and uncertificated securities on behalf of that member and its clients. 
            (gg) CSD means central securities depositories. 
            (hh) CSDP means a duly appointed participant in a central securities depository. 
            (ii) CSM means a custody and settlement member of the JSE Limited who has been appointed in terms of the rules and on behalf of its clients and/or another member and that member's clients: 
                (1) exercises custody over managed accounts, safe custody and controlled account assets; and 
                (2) effects settlement of uncertificated and certificated securities. 
            (jj) Settlement authority means the person or persons appointed by the JSE Limited to manage the settlement of transactions in uncertificated securities effected through the trading system of the JSE Limited in terms of the rules and directives, as well as the CSD rules. 
            (kk) Stockbroker means a natural person who is a member or who is an officer or employee of a member and who is authorised and qualified under the rules of the exchange concerned to be a stockbroker. 
            (ll) Stock exchange means any association licensed in terms of section 10 of the Securities Services Act, 2004 (Act No. 36 of 2004). 
            (mm) STRATE means Share Transactions Totally Electronic Limited, a public company registered as a CSD in terms of the section 32 of the Securities Services Act, 2004 (Act No. 36 of 2004), which provides the official electronic settlement and custody services to the JSE Limited. (nn) TMS means the trade monitoring system introduced by the Settlement authority in terms of which members of the JSE Limited, CSM and CSA, who introduce risk into the market, are levied with additional capital calls and cash margins. 
            (oo) Uncertificated securities mean securities as defined in section 29 of the Securities Services Act, 2004 (Act No. 36 of 2004), which are transferable without a written instrument and are not evidenced by a certificate. 
        #Definition 3 - end
        (iii) General (#Heading)
            (a) There are no restrictions on local dealings in securities, other than bearer securities, that are owned by residents. 
            (b) It is emphasised that this section applies not only to securities registered in the name of a non-resident, but also to securities in the name of a resident acting as a nominee for a non-resident. 
            (c) The principal objectives in controlling non-resident owned securities are to ensure that: 
                (aa) residents requiring funds outside the CMA do not obtain such funds by purchasing securities in the CMA and selling them outside the CMA without accounting for the proceeds in foreign currency or Rand from a Non-resident Rand account in the name of the non-resident and/or Rand from a vostro account held in the books of the Authorised Dealer;  
                (bb) since all income due to non-residents on their securities is freely transferable, non-residents do not purchase securities from residents other than through approved channels at a fair and market related price; and 
                (cc) since exchange controls on non-residents have been abolished, the onus is on the South African buyer or seller of securities to prove that the transaction was concluded on an arm's length basis and at a fair and market related price. 
            (d) The scheme outlined hereunder has been designed to segregate securities owned by non-residents from securities owned by residents without imposing control over the actual securities in both certificated and uncertificated environments to allow non-residents the maximum freedom to change their investment portfolios without defeating the objectives outlined above, and at the same time to obviate the necessity for a cumbersome administrative system which, in the interests of investors and others concerned, it is naturally desired to avoid. (e) All securities traded on the JSE Limited need to be dematerialised or immobilised in the electronic records of the CSD specifically established for this purpose, before it can be rendered 'good delivery'. The residential status will be flagged by the various CSDPs or settlement agents. 
            (f) Since only CSDPs would be able to initiate the dematerialisation process in an electronic settlement environment, the initiation of this process in respect of emigrants would need to be the CSDP of the Authorised Dealer controlling the particular emigrant's remaining assets or the CSDP contracted by such an Authorised Dealer, under the auspices of the controlling Authorised Dealer. 
            (g) Only the CSDP of Authorised Dealers may enter into securities lending transactions with non-residents and then only within the ambit of the powers granted to them. 
            (h) Except with the authority of the Financial Surveillance Department, no advances may be made against securities. 
            (i) The Financial Surveillance Department is of the view that in a certificated environment securities control can best be administered by a few financial institutions who have a detailed knowledge of the subject and requirements imposed by the Financial Surveillance Department. It has, therefore, been centralised in the hands of a few branches of Authorised Dealers, who are referred to hereunder as Authorised Banks and CSDPs.  
            (j) In an uncertificated environment there is no distinction between the duties of Authorised Dealers, Authorised Banks and CSDPs. CSDPs and settlement agents are also authorised as such by the Financial Surveillance Department, while members of stock exchanges are authorised by the exchanges concerned. CSMs and CSAs are authorised as such by the JSE Limited. 
            (k) The following table 6 lists Authorised Dealer branches or entities have been appointed as Authorised Banks under Regulation 14: 
                #Table 6
                    Authorised Dealer | Branch or entity appointed as Authorised Bank 
                    ABSA Bank Limited | CIB Operations - Cape Town 
                    | CIB Operations - Durban 
                    | CIB Operations - Johannesburg 
                    | CIB Operations - Pretoria 
                    Access Bank (South Africa) Limited | Securities Division, Head Office, Johannesburg 
                    Bidvest Bank Limited | Head Office, Braamfontein, Johannesburg 
                    Citibank, N.A., South Africa | Johannesburg 
                    FirstRand Bank Limited |  FirstRand Currency and Exchanges Department 
                    | RMB Custody Services 
                    HSBC Bank plc | Johannesburg Branch 
                    Investec Bank Limited | Head Office, Sandton 
                    Mercantile Bank Limited | Cape Town Branch 
                    | Durban Branch 
                    | Treasury Operations, Sandton 
                    Nedbank Limited | Group Exchange Control – Enterprise Governance and Compliance 
                    | Global Business Centre, Cape Town 
                    | Global Business Centre, Durban 
                    | Global Business Centre, Johannesburg 
                    | Global Business Centre, Paarl 
                    | Global Business Centre, Port Elizabeth 
                    | Nedbank Limited Investor Services 
                    | Nedbank Private Wealth Non-Resident and Embassy Banking (NREB) – Johannesburg 
                    | Non-Resident and Embassy Banking (NREB) – Tshwane 
                    | Non-Resident and Embassy Banking (NREB) – Western Cape 
                    | Johannesburg Branch 
                    Société Générale | Johannesburg Branch 
                    Standard Chartered Bank | Johannesburg Branch 
                    The Standard Bank of South Africa Limited | Markets, Cape Town 
                    | Global Markets, Durban  
                    | Global Markets, Johannesburg 
                    | Global Markets, Port Elizabeth 
                    | Investor Services, Johannesburg 
                    | Johannesburg IPC Non-Resident Centre  
                #Table 6 - end               
            (l) The following table 7 lists Authorised Dealer branches or entities have been appointed as CSDPs in respect of the electronic settlement and custody services provided by STRATE under Regulation 14: 
                #Table 7
                    Financial institution | Branch or entity appointed as central securities depositories participant 
                    Citibank, N.A., South Africa | Johannesburg 
                    Computershare Custodial Services  | Johannesburg 
                    FirstRand Bank Limited | RMB Corporate Banking – Custody and Trustee Services 
                    JSE Investor Services CSDP (Pty) Ltd | Johannesburg 
                    Nedbank Limited Securities and Custodial Services | Johannesburg 
                    Corporate and Investment Banking, a Division of The Standard Bank of South Africa Limited | Financial Asset Services Operations, Johannesburg 
                    Société Générale | Johannesburg 
                    Standard Chartered Bank | Johannesburg 
                #Table 7 - end
            (m) The following table 8 lists Authorised Dealer branches or entities have been appointed as settlement agents of the Central Depository Limited under Regulation 14 in respect of the electronic clearing and settlement system operated by STRATE: 
                #Table 8
                    Financial institution | Branch or entity appointed as settlement agent 
                    Citibank, N.A., South Africa | Johannesburg 
                    FirstRand Bank Limited | RMB Custody Services Nedbank Limited Securities and Custodial Services Johannesburg 
                    Corporate and Investment Banking, a division of The Standard Bank of South Africa Limited | Financial Asset Services Operations, Johannesburg 
                #Table 8 - end
        (iv) Existing holdings of non-resident owned securities in certificated form (#Heading)
            (a) Regulation 14 makes it obligatory for all residents who hold or receive securities on behalf of non-residents to submit such securities to any Authorised Dealer or CSDP in the CMA for non-resident endorsement as indicated in (d) below. The securities must be accompanied by a declaration signed by the holder that the beneficial owner of the securities is permanently resident in the country indicated. 
            (b) This section applies both to securities registered in the names of non-residents and to those held in the names of nominees, including Authorised Dealers and all other nominee companies. 
            (c) Regulation 14 precludes any resident from acting as a nominee for a non-resident, unless permission has been obtained from the Financial Surveillance Department. Such permission will normally be granted only to stockbrokers, banks and other financial institutions. Authorised Dealers and their nominee companies are hereby authorised to act as nominees for non-residents. 
            (d) Authorised Dealers who are presented with unendorsed securities, will endorse such securities non-resident. The endorsement will be written or stamped in bold letters, not less than five millimetres high, on the top right-hand corner of the security. The endorsement will be authenticated by the stamp of the Authorised Dealer concerned and the signature of one of its authorised officers. It is emphasised that any Authorised Dealer may endorse securities, but that only an Authorised Bank may cancel the endorsement. Cancellations must also be authenticated as indicated above. 
            (e) The effect of the non-resident endorsement will be to render the securities 'bad delivery' to a resident until the endorsement has been cancelled by an Authorised Bank. 
            (f) If a non-resident wishes to effect a switch, the security will have to be presented to an Authorised Bank to have the endorsement cancelled. Such cancellation must be signed by an authorised officer of the Authorised Bank concerned. 
            (g) The Authorised Banks will only cancel the endorsement on the following conditions: 
                (aa) against the presentation of other locally listed or unlisted securities of an equivalent value as evidenced by brokers' notes or an auditors' certificate confirming the value of the unquoted security, which would then be endorsed non-resident and returned to the broker, buyer or Authorised Dealer controlling the remaining  assets of the emigrant; 
                (bb) against payment to the Authorised Bank, for transfer abroad or for credit of a Non-resident Rand account, of the proceeds of the securities realised, as evidenced by brokers' notes or auditors' certificate confirming the value of the unlisted security; and 
                (cc) against payment to the Authorised Bank of part of the proceeds for transfer abroad or for credit to a Non-resident Rand account and presentation of other locally listed or unlisted securities, together totalling the equivalent of the value of the securities sold. A non-resident endorsement must be placed on the securities presented. 
            (h) Funds held in Non-resident Rand accounts are freely transferable and will accordingly be eligible for investment in locally listed and unlisted securities, financial instruments and any other assets on behalf of such account holder. The funds may be released to a stockbroker or seller against presentation of local securities on which a non-resident endorsement must be placed by the Authorised Bank. 
            (i) If the value of securities sold on behalf of a non-resident exceeds the value of the new securities purchased, as evidenced by the relative brokers' notes or auditors' certificate, the difference must be deposited with an Authorised Bank for credit of a Non-resident Rand account. 
            (j) Where the value of securities purchased on behalf of a non-resident exceeds the value of the securities sold, the stockbroker or purchaser must satisfy the bank that the shortfall has been received in foreign currency or Rand from a Non-resident Rand account in the name of the non-resident and/or Rand from a vostro account held in the books of the Authorised Dealer. 
            (k) Authorised Banks may permit switches into other locally listed securities. Switches may also be permitted from unlisted securities to listed securities, from listed to unlisted securities, or from unlisted to other unlisted securities. The value of unlisted securities needs to be confirmed by an auditors' certificate in each instance. 
            (l) Transfer secretaries are also required to endorse securities in certain circumstances and will not be permitted to: 
                (aa) register securities in the name of a non-resident without endorsing the relative securities non-resident; 
                (bb) transfer securities out of the name of a non-resident (except to another non-resident), unless the relative securities have been endorsed non-resident and the endorsement cancelled by an Authorised Bank; and 
                (cc) issue rights to non-residents without endorsing the relative documents non-resident. 
        (v) Securities purchased by non-residents and not dematerialised or immobilised in a central securities depositories (#Heading)
            (a) Authorised Dealers must place an endorsement on securities purchased with funds received in foreign currency or for which payment is made from a Non-resident Rand account (including funds received from an emigrant's capital account). The endorsement will consist of the word non-resident and will be authenticated by the stamp of the Authorised Dealer concerned and the signature of one of its authorised officers. After the endorsement has been annotated, the securities will be returned to the broker, buyer or Authorised Dealer controlling the remaining assets of the emigrant concerned, whichever is applicable. 
            (b) If the owner wishes to switch a security endorsed transferable or non-resident into another listed or unlisted security, an Authorised Bank must cancel the endorsement on the security sold and place a non-resident endorsement on the security purchased. This will only be done against confirmation of brokers' notes confirming the value of listed securities or auditors' certificates confirming the value of unlisted securities. When the latter is presented for transfer into the name of a non-resident or his/her nominee, the transfer secretary who signs the security issued to the transferee, must endorse that security non-resident above his/her signature. Securities forming part of an emigrant's remaining assets will be returned to the Authorised Dealer controlling such emigrant's remaining assets for control in terms of the Regulations. 
            (c) Non-residents may switch their securities as provided for in (iv)(k) above. 
            (d) In endorsing any security purchased under a switch, the Authorised Bank must ensure that any shortfall is received in foreign currency or Rand from a Non-resident Rand account in the name of the non-resident and/or Rand from a vostro account held in the books of the Authorised Dealer. Any surplus funds arising from a switch must be credited to a Non-resident Rand account. 
            (e) A non-resident may sell any CMA securities to another non-resident. 
        (vi) Initiation of the dematerialisation and immobilisation process and subsequent trading in this environment (#Heading)
            (a) All securities traded on the JSE Limited need to be dematerialised or immobilised in the electronic records of the central depositories specifically established for this purpose before they can be rendered 'good delivery'. The residential status of the electronic record (i.e. non-resident or emigrant or resident) will be flagged accordingly by the various participants in the central depository, and linked to the applicable non-resident, emigrant capital or resident accounts in the books of the Authorised Dealer or Authorised Bank concerned. 
            (b) Only CSDPs would be able to initiate the dematerialisation process in an electronic trading environment. It follows that the initiation of this process in respect of emigrants would need to be the CSDP of the Authorised Dealer controlling the particular emigrant's remaining assets, or the CSDP contracted by such an Authorised Dealer, under the auspices of the controlling Authorised Dealer. (c) This section applies both to securities registered in the names of non-residents and to those held in the names of nominees, including Authorised Dealers and all other nominee companies. It may further be added that Regulation 14 precludes any resident from acting as a nominee for a non-resident, unless permission has been obtained from the Financial Surveillance Department. Only CSDPs and CSMs are authorised to act as nominees for non-residents, provided that their computer systems comply with the requirements of the JSE Limited or STRATE, depending on the environment in which they operate. 
            (d) In processing any security purchased by a non-resident under a permitted switch, the relevant Authorised Bank must confirm that the funds needed to settle the trade will be available on the settlement date. The Authorised Bank must ensure that any shortfall is received in foreign currency or Rand from a Non-resident Rand account in the name of the non-resident and/or Rand from a vostro account held in the books of the Authorised Dealer and that any surplus funds arising from a switch will be credited to a Non-resident Rand account. 
            (e) Funds held in Non-resident Rand accounts are freely transferable and will accordingly be eligible for investment in locally listed and unlisted securities, financial instruments and any other assets on behalf of such account holders. The funds may be released to a stockbroker against presentation of a broker's note. 
            (f) Where a non-resident removes securities or financial instruments that have been dematerialised or immobilised in a CSD to a foreign register, the endorsement and cancellation procedures will not be applicable. 
            (g) Where a non-resident re-materialises securities or financial instruments that have been dematerialised or immobilised in a CSD or a central depository, the endorsement procedures will again become operative. 
            (h) To cover the expenses that will necessarily be incurred by CSDPs or settlement agents in maintaining qualified staff to deal with the matters outlined in this section, certain charges may be levied. 
        (vii) Duties of Authorised Dealers and Authorised Banks (#Heading)
            (a) Authorised Dealers (#Heading)
                (aa) All certificated securities held by an Authorised Dealer on behalf of a non-resident must be endorsed as prescribed in this section. This applies irrespective of the name in which the shares are registered. 
                (bb) All non-resident owned certificated securities that are not already endorsed and that are presented to an Authorised Dealer must be endorsed against presentation of the signed declaration referred to therein. 
                (cc) Declarations need not be completed in respect of endorsed scrip held by an Authorised Bank on behalf of a non-resident. 
                (dd) On no account may any person other than an authorised officer of an Authorised Bank cancel the endorsement on a certificated security. It follows that switches on behalf of a non-resident from certificated securities where an endorsement needs to be cancelled must be referred to an Authorised Bank. 
                (ee) With regard to settlement and custody in an electronic environment, there is no difference between the duties of Authorised Dealers and Authorised Banks. 
                (ff) The computer systems of Authorised Dealers must comply with the requirements of STRATE. 
                (gg) Authorised Dealers must account for individual securities held by their clients on the resident, non-resident and emigrant platforms of their nominee account with a CSDP. 
                (hh) They are also required to satisfactorily reconcile the aggregate of their electronic sub-register records per platform (i.e. resident, non-resident and emigrant) on a daily basis with the total of their nominee account. 
                (ii) When opening an account for a non-resident investor, the Authorised Dealer must ensure that the following indicators are correctly identified: 
                    (1) resident; 
                    (2) non-resident; and 
                    (3) emigrant. 
                (jj) Authorised Dealers must ensure that a properly styled resident, non-resident, emigrant capital or transferable income account has been linked to the securities account for settlement and corporate action purposes. 
                (kk) Under no circumstances may Authorised Dealers permit the transfer of securities within a nominee electronic register between local, non-resident and emigrant client accounts, other than for settlement related transfers. 
            (b) Authorised Banks (#Heading)
                (aa) The information below under (cc) to (gg) refers to the existing certificated holdings of non-residents, howsoever, acquired and to securities forwarded to the CMA or acquired as a result of switches. 
                (bb) The provisions of subsection (A) above apply to Authorised Banks who are also vested with the powers mentioned in the succeeding subsections. 
                (cc) Authorised Banks may permit switches into unquoted securities. 
                (dd) The endorsement on non-resident owned securities may be cancelled only on the conditions outlined in (iv)(g) above. 
                (ee) With regard to (iv)(h) above, Authorised Banks will appreciate that, before releasing funds to a member of the JSE Limited, it is essential for them to endorse the certificated securities presented and to ensure that the latter are of approximately equal value to those sold. 
                (ff) It is emphasised that endorsements may not be cancelled without the endorsement of other securities of similar value or against credit of the proceeds to a Non-resident Rand account. 
                (gg) With regard to (v) above, Authorised Banks will appreciate that the non-resident endorsement on a security no longer restricts the transferability of the sale proceeds thereof. 
                (hh) A security purchased for a non-resident may only be endorsed if the Authorised Bank concerned is satisfied that payment therefore has been received in foreign currency or Rand from a Non-resident Rand account in the name of the non-resident and/or Rand from a vostro account held in the books of the Authorised Dealer. 
                (ii) If the owner of a transferable security wishes to sell it and purchase another, an Authorised Bank must place a non-resident endorsement on the security purchased and must: 
                    (1) satisfy itself that the security sold was endorsed by an Authorised Bank or by the transfer secretary whose signature appears at the foot of the security; and 
                    (2) cancel the endorsement on the security sold.(jj) All income due on securities owned by non-residents is transferable to countries outside the CMA. 
                (kk) Except with the authority of the Financial Surveillance Department, advances may not be made against securities owned by non-residents. 
                (ll) Securities owned by non-residents may not be exported, unless they have been endorsed 'Non-Resident'. 
        (viii) Duties of central securities depository participants and settlement agents (#Heading)
            (a) The role of CSDPs and settlement agents is that of a custodian and to perform clearing and settlement services by interfacing with STRATE. 
            (b) The computer systems of CSDPs and settlement agents must comply with the requirements of the JSE Limited or STRATE, depending in which environment they operate. 
            (c) CSDPs and settlement agents are involved in the settlement process, as trades are eligible for settlement only if the trades have been confirmed or committed to by the CSM, CSA or CSDP and the settlement agent, which the instance requires. 
            (d) CSDPs must account for individual securities held by their clients on the 'Resident' or 'Non-Resident' or 'Emigrant' platforms. 
            (e) CSDPs and settlement agents are also required to satisfactorily reconcile the aggregate of their electronic records per platform (i.e. 'Resident' or 'Non-Resident' or 'Emigrant') on a daily basis with the CSD operated by STRATE. 
            (f) CSDPs and settlement agents may permit switches into unlisted securities. 
            (g) All income due on securities owned by non-residents is transferable to countries outside the CMA. 
            (h) Advances against securities may not be made without the prior written approval of the Financial Surveillance Department. 
            (i) Certificated securities owned by non-residents may not be exported, unless they have been endorsed 'Non-Resident'. 
            (j) Securities owned by non-residents may be transferred free of value between CSDPs for the account of the same non-resident or for the account of another non-resident under the following conditions: 
                (aa) that the delivering CSDP advises that the transfer constitutes non-resident owned securities;
                (bb) that the receiving CSDP ensures that the securities deposited to a non-resident share account and that either no change of beneficial ownership takes place or non-resident funds have moved elsewhere in terms of the transaction; 
                (cc) where such a transaction is initiated by a member of the JSE Limited, the onus will be on the member to prove that the transaction is effected in terms of the provisions of the Authorised Dealer Manual and that proof of this should be provided to both the receiving and delivering CSDPs; and 
                (dd) where an American depository receipt (ADR) transaction is initiated by a member of the JSE Limited , the onus will be on the member to prove that the transaction is in terms of the Authorised Dealer Manual and that proof of foreign currency movement should be provided to the CSDP. 
            (k) When opening an account for an investor, the CSDP must ensure that the following indicators are correctly identified: 
                (aa) resident; 
                (bb) non-resident; and 
                (cc) emigrant. 
        (ix) Duties of members of the JSE Limited (#Heading)
            (a) Dealing with listed securities where the securities are in certificated form 
                (aa) In terms of the provisions of Regulation 14, members of the JSE Limited receiving securities in certificated form from or on behalf of a non-resident must immediately have the securities endorsed non-resident by an Authorised Dealer. 
                (bb) This applies also to securities purchased on behalf of a non-resident, even if the securities are to be registered in the name of the broker as nominee and to any securities bearing an address outside the CMA, whether the securities are to be dealt in or not. 
                (cc) Members of the JSE Limited should on no account deal in any way with unendorsed securities in which they know or have reason to believe a non-resident has an interest. 
                (dd) When requested by a non-resident to sell any security, the proceeds must either be used to purchase another locally listed security or be deposited with an Authorised Bank for transfer abroad or for credit of a Non-resident Rand account in the name of the non-resident. The conditions governing dealings on behalf of non-residents are set out more fully in this section of the Authorised Dealer Manual. 
                (ee) Members are required to ensure that all securities introduced by a non-resident client into a non-resident share account are in fact non-resident securities by verifying that the securities bear a non-resident endorsement or that the securities have been transferred from another non-resident share account. 
                (ff) Members are required to ensure that where residents emigrate from the CMA their remaining assets are brought under the administration of an Authorised Dealer. 
            (b) Dealing with listed securities where the securities have been dematerialised or immobilised in a central depository 
                (aa) After a transaction has been concluded with a non-resident or emigrant or resident party, brokers' notes must be sent to both the client and their nominated CSDP. 
            (c) General 
                (aa) Members of the JSE Limited should at all times strictly adhere to these requirements to prevent the objectives of securities control being defeated. 
                (bb) When in any doubt, members must consult an Authorised Bank or the Director of Surveillance, the JSE Limited. Reference to the Financial Surveillance Department should be via an Authorised Dealer. 
        (x) Duties of transfer secretaries (#Heading)
            (a) Regulation 14 restricts dealings in securities belonging to non-residents, except on the conditions prescribed by the Treasury, whose powers under this regulation have been delegated to the Financial Surveillance Department. Except with permission (which must be obtained from an Authorised Dealer who will, in need, refer to the Financial Surveillance Department), no person may: 
                (aa) register the transfer of any security in which a non-resident has an interest; 
                (bb) change the address of a non-resident, except to another non-resident address; 
                (cc) register a South African address if the owner is a non-resident; or 
                (dd) transfer a non-resident entry from the foreign section of a register to the South African section of the register or vice versa. 
            (b) This section of the Authorised Dealer Manual deals with the prescribed conditions upon which the acts specified in Regulation 14 may be performed by transfer secretaries and the duties that devolve upon them. In general: 
                (aa) no transfer of securities may be effected to or from a non-resident without the approval of an Authorised Bank or CSDP; 
                (bb) no securities in certificated form or right to purchase securities may be issued to, or for account of, a non-resident unless the documents are endorsed non-resident; 
                (cc) any request to change the address of a non-resident, except to another non-resident address, requires the prior written approval of the Financial Surveillance Department; 
                (dd) it is possible that some securities in certificated form owned by non-residents may not be presented for endorsement, but if transfer secretaries receive, for any purpose, unendorsed securities in certificated form in the names of persons whose addresses are shown in the register as being outside the CMA, they should immediately hand the securities to an Authorised Dealer for endorsement; 
                (ee) transfer secretaries may transfer securities in certificated form from one non-resident to another non-resident, provided that they place a non-resident endorsement on the security in the name of the transferee; 
                (ff) transfer secretaries may transfer securities in certificated form from a resident to a non-resident only if the transferee's security is endorsed non-resident; 
                (gg) transfer secretaries may not transfer securities in certificated form from a non-resident to a resident unless the transferor's security bears a 'Non-Resident' endorsement and the endorsement has been cancelled by an Authorised Bank. No non-resident endorsement must be placed on the security issued to the resident. A transfer from a non-resident to a local nominee acting for the same non-resident, where no change of ownership is involved, is not regarded as a transfer from a non-resident to a resident. Transfer secretaries may, therefore, effect such transfers without reference to an Authorised Bank, provided that they place a 'Non-Resident' endorsement on the new security issued in certificated form;
                (hh) forms of acceptance in certificated form, in respect of non-residents, must be endorsed 'Non-Resident', before issue. Securities (including letters of allocation, letters of allotment, option certificates, balance receipts and any other receipts for securities) may not be issued to a non-resident, or to a person known to be his/her nominee, without the approval of an Authorised Bank, who will indicate that the purchase price has been received in foreign currency or Rand from a Non-resident Rand account in the name of the non-resident and/or Rand from a vostro account held in the books of the Authorised Dealer. The securities must be endorsed 'Non-Resident'; 
                (ii) where non-resident endorsed securities are received for splitting or replacement without change of ownership, transfer secretaries must endorse the new securities 'Non-Resident' as well; 
                (jj) all non-resident endorsements by transfer offices must be authenticated by the signature of the authorised official of the transfer secretary concerned; 
                (kk) transfer secretaries must in the following instances ensure that the original securities in certificated form are surrendered prior to issuing new securities in their stead: 
                    (1) change of name; 
                    (2) subdivision or consolidation of shares; 
                    (3) participation in a reconstruction or merger; and 
                    (4) buy-out and in lieu of cash, new shares are issued to the original shareholders; and 
                (ll) where a transfer secretary is requested by a CSDP to rematerialise for a non-resident, the transfer secretary may produce a certificate, provided that such certificate is endorsed 'Non-Resident'. 

    (B) Financial Surveillance Department requirements relating to the JSE Limited (#Heading)
    Note: (i) to (vii) below, only apply to South African registered and domiciled companies with South African primary listings. 
        (i) The listing of a South African registered company on the JSE Limited: (#Heading)
            (a) Authorised Dealers may, on application to them, permit the listing of a South African registered company, excluding a bank and/or a bank holding company, on the JSE Limited, provided that they are fully satisfied that the following clause is incorporated in the prospectus: 
            “In terms of the Exchange Control Regulations of South Africa: 
                1. a former resident of the Common Monetary Area who has emigrated, may use funds in the emigrant capital account to subscribe for shares in terms of this prospectus; 
                2. all payments in respect of subscriptions for shares by an emigrant, using funds from an emigrant's capital account, must be made through the Authorised Dealer controlling the remaining assets; 
                3. any shares issued pursuant to the use of funds from emigrant's capital account, will be credited to their share accounts at the central securities depository participant controlling their remaining portfolios; 
                4. shares subsequently re-materialised and issued in certificated form, will be endorsed 'Non-Resident' and will be sent to the Authorised Dealer through whom the payment was made; and 
                5. if applicable, refund monies payable in respect of unsuccessful applications or partly successful applications, as the case may be, for shares in terms of this prospectus, emanating from emigrant capital accounts, will be returned to the Authorised Dealer through whom the payments were made, for credit to such emigrants' capital accounts. 
            Applicants resident outside the Common Monetary Area should note that, where shares are subsequently re-materialised and issued in certificated form, such share certificates will be endorsed 'Non-Resident' in terms of the Exchange Control Regulations.” 
            (b) Authorised Dealers should, however, ensure that nothing is stated in the prospectus that is contrary to the provisions of the Authorised Dealer Manual or a specific authority granted by the Financial Surveillance Department, prior to the granting of any authority in this regard. 
        (ii) Capitalisation issues (#Heading)
        Authorised Dealers may, on application, permit capitalisation issues, provided that they are fully satisfied that the following clauses, where applicable, are incorporated in the circular to shareholders: 
            (a) Capitalisation award emanating from a share premium account (#Heading)
            “In terms of the Exchange Control Regulations of South Africa:
                1. any share certificates that might be issued to non-resident shareholders will be endorsed 'Non-Resident'; 
                2. any new share certificates, dividend and residual cash payments based on emigrants' shares controlled in terms of the Exchange Control Regulations, will be forwarded to the Authorised Dealer controlling their remaining assets. The election by emigrants for the above purpose must be made through the Authorised Dealer controlling their remaining assets. Such share certificates will be endorsed 'Non-Resident'; and 
                3. dividend and residual cash payments due to non-residents are freely transferable from South Africa.” 
            (b) Capitalisation award emanating from distributable reserves (#Heading)
            “In terms of the Exchange Control Regulations of South Africa: 
                1. any share certificates that might be issued to non-resident shareholders will be endorsed 'Non-Resident'; 
                2. any new share certificates issued based on emigrants' shares controlled in terms of the Exchange Control Regulations, will be forwarded to the Authorised Dealer controlling their remaining assets. Such share certificates will be endorsed 'Non-Resident'; and 
                3. dividend and residual cash payments are freely transferable from South Africa.” 
        (iii) Reverse listings (#Heading)
            (a) Authorised Dealers may on application permit reverse listings, provided that the requirements of subsection (F) below are adhered to, where applicable. 
        (iv) The issue of shares for cash (#Heading)
            (a) Authorised Dealers may on application permit the issue of shares for cash, provided that the requirements of subsection (F) below are adhered to, where applicable. 
            (b) The use of any proceeds for investments outside the CMA requires the prior written approval of the Financial Surveillance Department. 
        (v) Rights issues or claw-back offers by listed companies (#Heading)
            (a) Authorised Dealers may on application permit rights issues or claw-back offers by listed companies, provided that the following clause is incorporated in the circular to shareholders: 
            “In terms of the Exchange Control Regulations of South Africa, non-residents of the Common Monetary Area will be allowed to: 
            1 take up rights allocated in terms of the offer; 
            2 purchase letters of allocation on the JSE Limited; 
            3 subscribe for new ordinary shares arising from letters of allocation purchased on the JSE Limited ; and 
            4 purchase excess shares that have been applied for in terms of the offer (if applicable); 
            provided that payment is received in foreign currency or in Rand from a Non-resident Rand account in the name of the non-resident and/or Rand from a vostro account held in the books of the Authorised Dealer. 
            All applications by non-residents for the above purposes must be made through an Authorised Dealer. Shares subsequently re-materialised and issued in certificated form, will be endorsed 'Non-Resident'. 
            Where a right in terms of the offer falls due to a former resident of the Common Monetary Area, which right is based on shares controlled in terms of the Exchange Control Regulations, only funds in the emigrant's capital account may be used to take up this right. In addition, such funds may also be used to: 
            1 purchase letters of allocation on the JSE Limited; 
            2 subscribe for new ordinary shares arising from the letters of allocation purchased on the JSE Limited; and 
            3 purchase excess shares that have been applied for in terms of the offer (if applicable). 
            Applications by emigrants to use funds in their capital account for the above purposes must be made through the Authorised Dealer controlling their remaining assets. Any shares issued pursuant to the use of funds in the emigrant capital account will be credited to their share accounts at the central securities depository participant controlling their remaining portfolios. The sale proceeds of letters of allocation, if applicable, will be returned to the Authorised Dealer for credit to such emigrants' capital accounts.” 
            (b) The use of proceeds for investments outside the CMA requires the prior written approval of the Financial Surveillance Department.
        (vi) The acquisition by non-residents of a 'cash company' (#Heading)
            (a) Authorised Dealers may, on application, permit the acquisition by non-residents of a 'cash company', provided that the requirements of subsection (F) below are adhered to, where applicable. 
        (vii) The acquisition from or disposal to a non-resident of assets by a listed company (#Heading)
            (a) Authorised Dealers may on application permit the acquisition from or disposal to a non-resident of assets by a listed company, provided that the requirements of subsection (C) below are adhered to. 
        (viii) Authorised Dealers are referred to the listings requirements of the JSE Limited, which require the prior written approval of the Financial Surveillance Department before the JSE Limited gives approval in respect of the following transactions: (#Heading)
            (a) the listing of a bank and/or bank holding company; 
            (b) the issue of bearer securities; 
            (c) restructures, mergers and changes in control where non-residents are involved; 
            (d) the listing of a quoted South African company on a foreign stock exchange; 
            (e) the listing of an external company on the JSE Limited; 
            (f) the listing of warrants; 
            (g) the issue of hedge securities; 
            (h) the delisting of a company listed on the JSE Limited; 
            (i) the declaration of a dividend in specie or special dividend, for any purpose; and 
            (j) the elimination of so-called 'odd lot' minority shareholders through the mechanism of consolidations and/or subdivisions of share capital. 
        (ix) Authorised Dealers are advised that the JSE Limited is now also in a position to facilitate the issuance of debt instruments. The terms and conditions pertaining to dealings by non-resident clients in these instruments are incorporated in the relevant exchange's rules and regulations. (#Heading)
    (C) South African assets owned by non-residents (#Heading)
        (i) Non-residents may freely invest in South Africa, provided that suitable documentary evidence is viewed in order to ensure that such transactions are concluded at arm's length, at fair market related prices and are financed in an approved manner. In this regard, such financing must be in the form of the introduction of foreign currency, Rand from a Non-resident Rand account in the name of the non-resident and/or Rand from a vostro account held in the books of the Authorised Dealer or in terms of the provisions of section I.1 of the Authorised Dealer Manual. The creation of any loan account between a resident and a non-resident would require the prior written approval of the Financial Surveillance Department. 
        (ii) The local sale or redemption proceeds of non-resident owned assets in South Africa may be regarded as freely transferable. Such proceeds may also be freely used in the CMA by non-residents for investment and other purposes, and may accordingly be credited to Non-resident Rand accounts. The provisions of subsection (D) below should be noted. 
        (iii) Stockbrokers may not retain, uninvested in their possession, the cash proceeds of securities sold on behalf of non-residents. Such funds must be paid to the credit of a Non-resident Rand account with an Authorised Bank with whom each stockbroking firm may, for this purpose, maintain a single Non-resident Rand account in its own name to handle the share transactions of non-resident clients. 

    (D) Investments by non-residents in South African debt securities (#Heading)
        (i) In view of the multiplicity of debt securities (debt instruments) on offer, largely as a result of the securitisation of many forms of debt or assets, Authorised Dealers and their corporate clients are advised to seek the guidance and/or the prior written approval of the Financial Surveillance Department before issuing, listing and/or purchasing any form of debt security, other than those specifically dealt with in this subsection. 
        (ii) Non-resident investors may subscribe to and/or purchase government, municipal and public utility stocks. 
        (iii) Non-resident investors may subscribe to and/or purchase short-term money market bearer or negotiable instruments such as treasury bills, parastatal project bills, bankers acceptances, promissory notes and negotiable certificates of deposit. 
        (iv) These securities must remain in the custody of the non-resident's local Authorised Bank until such time as these are sold or redeemed. 
        (v) Rates of interest or discount rates earned by the non-resident investor must equate to the money market rate ruling for such a security at the time of purchase.
        (vi) Authorised Banks are exempted from the provisions of Regulation 15 (1), (2) and (3), provided that the terms and conditions of this subsection are strictly complied with. 
        (vii) Emigrants may utilise funds in their capital account to subscribe to and/or purchase stocks and/or short-term money market bearer or negotiable instruments of the above nature on the same terms and conditions as set out above. The sale or redemption proceeds are not eligible for transfer abroad and must be credited to the emigrants' capital accounts. Only interest earned or any discount obtained, as against that purchased, is eligible for transfer abroad or may be placed to the credit of a Non-resident Rand account. The provisions of section B.3(B) of the Authorised Dealer Manual would, however, continue to apply. 
        (viii) The local issue, listing and/or purchase of the following debt securities require the prior written approval of the Financial Surveillance Department: 
            (a) Subscription to and/or purchase of zero coupon bonds 
                (aa) A deep discount security is a bond that makes low or, in the case of a zero coupon bond, no periodic interest payments and is, therefore, sold at a large discount to its nominal value. The buyer of such a bond receives a rate of return from the gradual appreciation of the security, which is redeemed at nominal value on a specified maturity date. 
            (b) Subscription to and/or purchase of stripped treasury certificates 
                (aa) Stripped treasury certificates are a type of zero coupon bond, but are not issued by a corporate entity to raise funds. They are usually created by an investment (merchant) bank buying blocks of long-term securities issued by the government (treasury stocks) and separating (stripping) the future coupon payments and principal redemption values. Usually a special purpose vehicle is set up to carry out the stripping. Zero coupon bonds are then issued by the special purpose vehicle with maturity values determined by and secured on the coupons and redemptions of the underlying treasury stocks. The treasury stocks are held in trust by a custodian bank which collects the coupons to pay off each tranche of the zero coupon bonds. The final tranche is redeemed out of the redemption value of the block of treasury stocks. 
            (c) Subscription to and/or purchase of foreign currency or index linked debt instruments 
                (aa) The active swap market has facilitated the issue of a large number of debt instruments which have some of the following features:
                    (1) interest payments denominated in a currency other than that of redemption; 
                    (2) redemption in a currency other than that of issue; 
                    (3) redemption values linked to index values such as stock exchange indices; 
                    (4) interest and/or redemption values linked to commodity prices; and 
                    (5) interest payments in a range of currencies. 
            (d) Subscription to and/or purchase of asset backed securities 
                (aa) With asset backed securities, specific assets serve as collateral for the securities and generate the payment streams that are used to finance the payment of interest and principal to the investors in the security (debt instrument). Typically, the issuer cannot easily convert assets into cash, and the assets are then securitised. 
                (bb) In general, any receivable that has a contractual cash flow is potentially suitable for securitisation. Assets to be securitised or unitised must have some, if not all, of the following characteristics: 
                    (1) the cash flow generated from the assets should be received periodically in accordance with a predetermined schedule; (2) the actual cash flows generated from the assets should be predictable, or statistics should be available for their expected performance (e.g. a history of defaults and prepayments); 
                    (3) the assets should be large enough in number and total value for it to be economical to issue them in securitised form; 
                    (4) there should be sufficient similarity in the characteristics of the assets (e.g. the final maturity date) so that their cash flows can be pooled; and 
                    (5) the assets should be of good saleable quality (i.e. there is a low risk of default) or some form of credit enhancement may be required (e.g. a guarantee). 
                (cc) There are two basic forms of asset backed securities. The choice of structure is generally regulatory and tax-driven. The first form is usually referred to as pass-through securities, which are sold to investors who receive participation certificates. The payments of both interest and capital received by the issuer from the pool of assets are passed through directly to the investors in proportion to their participation. 
                (dd) The second form is the issue of asset backed bonds structured as a financing transaction. Debt securities are issued which are backed by collateral (i.e. the assets). The cash flows generated from the assets are not passed directly through to investors, but are used to pay coupon interest on the bonds and then redeem principal in a predetermined order. The pool of assets will often have been sold to a special purpose vehicle, which will in turn issue the securities. The special purpose vehicle may or may not be a subsidiary of the original owner. 
    (E) Advances to non-residents (#Heading)
        (i) Advances, including those in respect of securities dealings (#Heading)
        Advances, including those in respect of securities dealings, except where it is permissible in terms of the Authorised Dealer Manual, may not without the specific authority of the Financial Surveillance Department be granted to non-residents against the pledge of such securities or against any other form of security. 
        (ii) Switch transactions (#Heading)
        In switch transactions, however, where a stockbroker simultaneously sells one security for a non-resident and buys another, credit may be allowed on a purely temporary basis to bridge the gap pending receipt of payment for the security sold. Such facilities must be regarded as valid for the interim period only and may not be unduly protracted. 
        (iii) Repurchase agreements (#Heading)
            (a) A repurchase transaction, also known as a carry deal, is an agreement whereby one party (known as the seller-borrower) sells a security to the other party (the buyer-lender) with a simultaneous agreement to repurchase the security at a fixed future date at a stipulated price. While the legal form of the transaction is a sale and a repurchase, in substance the seller-borrower borrows the proceeds of the sale from the buyer-lender and deposits the securities as collateral. The difference between the sale and repurchase price of the security is essentially an interest cost to the seller-borrower. 
            (b) Repurchase transactions entered into with a non-resident seller-borrower counter party are deemed to be a form of financial assistance and therefore subject to the provisions of Regulation 3(1)(e) and (f). 
            (c) Authorised Dealers may, however, enter into repurchase transactions with a non-resident seller-borrower, provided that such transactions are fully secured either by providing cash cover in Rand or the pledge of unencumbered non-resident owned local assets. Any additional margin requirements are to be provided similarly. 
            (d) The aforementioned provisions would also apply to any repurchase transactions undertaken by an Authorised Dealer with emigrant seller-borrower counterparties in respect of their remaining portfolios. 
            (e) Authorised Dealers are exempted from the provisions of Regulation 3(1)(e) and/or (f), provided that the terms and conditions of this subsection are strictly complied with. 
            (f) The interest factor or cost of the carry may be settled in foreign currency or over a Non-resident Rand account, provided that the rate is reasonable having regard to current interest rates. In the case of emigrants the provisions of section B.3(B) of the Authorised Dealer Manual would, however, continue to apply. All other cash flows related to repurchase transactions would be settled over the Non-resident Rand account or emigrant's capital account of the non-resident or emigrant concerned. 
        (iv) Securities lending (#Heading)
            (a) Securities lending is the transfer of ownership of a locally quoted security, including inward listed securities from a lender to a borrower in exchange for collateral of an agreed type and for an agreed value. The transaction is accompanied by a pledge from the borrower to the lender to reverse the transaction at a future date by the redelivery of equivalent locally quoted securities. Collateral is usually required by lenders to cover the counter party risk involved in securities lending. Loans of locally quoted securities can be made either on a fixed term or on an open-ended (or call) basis. Open-ended loans will continue until either the lender or the borrower decides to terminate the loan. In both cases, on termination, the lender will ordinarily receive back from the borrower locally quoted securities of a similar kind to those lent and in exchange the lender will return the borrower's collateral. For the period of the loan the lender retains all the rights attached to the locally quoted securities lent, except the right to vote. Thus all dividends and corporate action entitlements pass back to the lender through the borrower. 
            (b) Securities lending transactions entered into with a non-resident counter party are deemed to be either a form of financial assistance to the non-resident borrower and therefore subject to the provisions of Regulation 3(1)(e) and/or (f) or a borrowing by a resident from a non-resident lender which is subject to the provisions of Regulation 2, amongst others. 
            (c) Authorised Dealers may, however, enter into securities lending transactions with a non-resident borrower, provided that such transactions are fully secured by cash cover in Rand, the transfer of unencumbered non-resident owned local collateral securities or the pledge of unencumbered non-resident owned local assets. Similarly, securities lending transactions with a non-resident lender must be fully secured by cash cover in Rand, the outright transfer of unencumbered resident owned local collateral securities or the pledge of local assets. Any additional margin requirements are to be provided on the same basis. The securities in question may not be held outside of South Africa and both legs of any transfer of securities as collateral must be administered by a South African resident custodian. 
            (d) The aforementioned provisions would also apply to any securities lending transactions undertaken by an Authorised Dealer with emigrant lender or borrower counterparties in respect of their remaining portfolios. 
            (e) Authorised Dealers are exempted from the provisions of Regulations 3(1)(e) and/or (f) and/or Regulation 2, provided that the terms and conditions of this subsection are strictly complied with. 
            (f) The interest factor or lending fee accruing to the lender may be settled in foreign currency or over a Non-resident Rand account, provided that the rate is reasonable having regard to current interest rates. In the case of emigrants the provisions of section B.3(B) of the Authorised Dealer Manual would, however, continue to apply. All other cash flows related to securities lending transactions would be settled over the Non-resident Rand account or emigrant's capital account of the non-resident or emigrant concerned. 
    (F) Endorsement (#Heading)
        (i) For the guidance of Authorised Dealers and to assist them in the administration of securities control, certain further aspects relative to endorsements are clarified below: 
            (a) Non-resident interest of any nature 
                (aa) Obligation to endorse 
                Certificated securities in which there is a non-resident interest of any nature whatsoever must be endorsed 'Non-Resident' and it is the duty of any transfer secretary or Authorised Dealer to whom the securities are presented to immediately procure such an endorsement. Any new shares issued in certificated form based on emigrants' shares controlled in terms of the Regulations will be forwarded to the Authorised Dealer controlling their remaining assets. 
                (bb) Domicile of investor 
                It should be noted that the current form of restrictive endorsement is 'Non-Resident', although historically certain securities may bear the endorsement 'Transferable'. The country of domicile of the investor must not be added to an endorsement. 
            (b) Residents of the CMA - Foreign address 
                (aa) Endorsement and removal 
                A resident of the CMA may not register an address outside the CMA and any securities currently held at an address outside the CMA are subject to immediate tainting by endorsement. Such occurrences must in each instance be referred to the Financial Surveillance Department together with full and precise details of the circumstances pertaining thereto. 
                (bb) Certificate of ownership at 1961-06-16 
                Attention is drawn to the fact that on the introduction of securities control in 1961, Authorised Dealers and members of the JSE Limited were at that stage authorised to place on the face of securities owned by residents and registered at a foreign address a certificate in the following form: 
                “Certified under authority of the South African Reserve Bank that the beneficial owner of these shares on 16 June 1961, was a resident of the Republic of South Africa. 

                Date ........................  ............................................................ Signature (of Authorised Dealer or Broking Member of the JSE Limited).” 
                (cc) The certificate in (bb) above may be taken by Authorised Banks as sufficient evidence to warrant a removal of the endorsement, provided that the owner is still a resident and that the registered address of the shareholder is changed to one within the CMA. 
            (c) Bonus shares (aa) Bonus shares issued to non-residents must be endorsed 'Non-Resident'. 
            (d) Government, municipal and public utility stocks 
                (aa) Non-resident owned stock is subject to the same endorsement requirements as applicable to any other securities. 
            (e) Shares of foreign companies quoted on the JSE Limited 
                (aa) The shares of companies registered outside the CMA that are quoted on the JSE Limited are subject to the same endorsement and other restrictions as applicable to CMA shares when traded locally on behalf of non-residents. 
            (f) Documents of title other than scrip 
                (aa) While the terms 'scrip' and 'share certificates' are used in general terms, the intention is that any other temporary or substitute documents of title such as letters of allocation, letters of allotment, option certificates, balance receipts and other receipts for scrip, are subject to the same endorsement and other restrictions as applicable to securities. 
    (G) Export of securities (#Heading)
        (i) The purchase and export of securities, particularly bearer securities, is a possible means by which residents may circumvent Financial Surveillance Department requirements. Authorised Dealers should accordingly exercise special care in handling securities transactions in which it appears that a non-resident may have an interest. 
            (a) Export by non-residents 
                (aa) Authorised Dealers may permit the export of certificated securities owned by non-residents (except where such shares form part of an emigrant's remaining assets), provided that they ensure that the certificates are first endorsed 'Non-Resident'. 
            (b) Re-export by transfer secretaries 
                (aa) Transfer secretaries may re-export certificates sent to them by non-residents solely for registration, splitting or marking. Before returning such certificates, however, it is incumbent on the transfer secretary concerned to ensure that they are endorsed 'Non-Resident'. 
            (c) Export of securities acquired in switch deals 
                (aa) Where a non-resident in a switch deal simultaneously sells one security locally and buys another, Authorised Dealers may, as an exceptional case and at their discretion, after endorsing the scrip as 'Non-Resident', authorise the export of the new security bought before receipt from abroad of the security sold. In these cases Authorised Dealers must keep adequate records to ensure that the securities sold are ultimately presented to them. Copies of brokers' notes substantiating details of the transactions must be called for. 
    (H) Address (#Heading)
        (i) The address at which securities are registered is of particular importance in the administration of securities control and Authorised Dealers should be vigilant when handling applications involving any change of address. 
            (a) Deceased estates outside the CMA 
                (aa) Transfer secretaries may, without the specific authority of the Financial Surveillance Department, record a change of address in their registers from the foreign address of the deceased, or the foreign estate, to the address of a resident executor or agent appointed to act for the non-resident estate. This concession only applies where the beneficial ownership remains non-resident and the executors or agents merely act on behalf of such owners. The securities must retain the non-resident endorsement. 
            (b) Nominees 
                (aa) Under the provisions of subsection (A)(x) above, a change from a non-resident address to the address of a local nominee acting for a non-resident may be effected by a transfer secretary without specific authority because, in this case, the beneficial ownership remains consistently non-resident. The certificates must therefore retain the non-resident endorsement. 
            (c) Address in South Africa 
                (aa) Authorised Dealers may permit the registration of an address in South Africa by a non-resident after the relative securities have been endorsed 'Non-Resident'. 
            (d) Foreign companies with offices in South Africa - Change of ownership and address 
                (aa) In no instance may a change of ownership and address of securities from an office of an issuer outside South Africa to an office of an issuer within South Africa be recorded without the specific prior written approval of the Financial Surveillance Department. 
            (e) Duties of transfer secretaries 
                (aa) Except in the cases mentioned in the preceding paragraphs, a transfer secretary may not record a change of address from resident to non-resident or from non-resident to resident on any register maintained in South Africa, whether it be a principal, duplicate or branch register and whether the relative advice is received in South Africa or by an office outside South Africa, without the authority of an Authorised Dealer. 
    (I) Income (#Heading)
        (i) Income due to non-residents (#Heading)
            (a) Income due to non-residents on their securities must be paid to their registered address. 
            (b) Non-residents may, however, if desired, receive dividend payments in South Africa and no formal authority would subsequently be required from the Financial Surveillance Department if the non-resident decides to change the place of payment to that of his/her appropriate registered address. 
            (c) Such dividend and income payments are subject to the provisions of section B.3(C) of the Authorised Dealer Manual. 
        (ii) Income due to residents (#Heading)
            (a) Residents may under no circumstances have dividends paid outside the CMA without specific prior written approval from the Financial Surveillance Department. 
    (J) Emigrants, immigrants and deceased estates (#Heading)
        (i) Emigrants (#Heading)
            (a) Emigrants may not record a non-resident address in respect of any securities that form part of their remaining assets on emigration. Such securities may not be exported and must remain under the control of an Authorised Dealer. 
        (ii) Immigrants (#Heading)
            (a) Purchase abroad of South African quoted securities (aa) Immigrants who have been accorded the concessions laid down in section B.5(B)(ii) of the Authorised Dealer Manual may within five years after their arrival, invest their foreign funds in or switch other foreign investments owned by them into South African securities abroad. 
            (b) Cancellation of the non-resident endorsement on South African securities 
                (aa) Immigrants may transfer their foreign assets to South Africa by way of locally quoted securities and Authorised Dealers must, in such instances, grant authority to Authorised Banks to cancel non-resident endorsements on such scrip. Such scrip must be transferred to the South African Register and a local address must be registered. Should South African quoted securities acquired abroad be introduced by an immigrant for sale on the JSE Limited, the resultant sale proceeds must be credited to a resident account. 
            (c) Emigration within five years 
                (aa) South African securities physically introduced and retained or purchased locally by immigrants who leave the country within five years of arrival may be exported on departure, provided that they have completed the necessary declaration and undertaking as outlined in section B.5(B)(i)(a) of the Authorised Dealer Manual. 
            (d) Former residents of the CMA 
                (aa) The facilities outlined above may not be accorded to any person who has previously resided in the CMA. Any requests received from such persons should be referred to the Financial Surveillance Department. 
        (iii) Deceased estates (#Heading)
            (a) Securities in estates of persons who at time of death were permanently resident in South Africa 
                (aa) Cash transfers by executors to non-resident legatees are permissible subject to the conditions laid down in section B.2(K) of the Authorised Dealer Manual. Executors may, prior to the submission and approval of the Liquidation and Distribution accounts, sell any securities in the estate and then, after the accounts have been passed, transfer the cash to the non-resident heirs. 
                (bb) Where South African securities in the estate are specifically bequeathed to a non-resident legatee, such securities should be endorsed 'Non-Resident' and may thereafter be exported to the legatee. 
                (cc) In all cases where such an estate holds authorised foreign assets, distribution of the foreign assets may be effected, provided that all foreign administrative and related costs have been met from the foreign portion of the estate. 
            (b) Securities forming part of the estate of persons who at the time of death were non-resident 
                (aa) South African securities forming part of the South African estates of non-residents, which are bequeathed to beneficiaries outside South Africa, remain non-resident assets and may be dealt with accordingly. 
    (K) Dealings by residents on foreign stock exchanges (#Heading)
        (i) Sales (#Heading)
            (a) South African securities may be exported by residents for sale abroad only through the medium of an Authorised Dealer, whose duty it will be to ensure that the sale proceeds are repatriated to South Africa. 
        (ii) Purchases (#Heading)
            (a) Residents are not permitted to purchase securities abroad, except as permitted in section B.2(B) to (I) of the Authorised Dealer Manual. Certain arrangements are, however, in force providing for controlled dealings by stockbrokers. Details of these arrangements are set out in (iii) below. 
        (iii) Arbitrage (#Heading)
            (a) Finance switch transactions (#Heading)
                (aa) There is no differentiation of a restrictive nature against arbitrage dealings by stockbrokers with or on behalf of non-residents, as compared with other dealings in this respect. 
                (bb) Authorised Banks must submit the names of foreign arbitrageurs, as well as the individual limits of the relevant Non-resident Rand account, to the Financial Surveillance Department for prior written approval, adding their recommendation for acceptance or stating reasons why recommendation is being withheld. (cc) Shares subsequently re-materialised must be endorsed 'Non-Resident' and sent to the Authorised Dealer through whom the payment was made. 
                (dd) It is emphasised that this facility is subject to review on an annual basis and any abuse of the spirit and conditions of this arrangement will result in its immediate withdrawal from the parties concerned. 
                (ee) For export of these securities see subsection (G)(i)(c) above. 
            (b) Joint accounts between resident and non-resident stockbrokers (#Heading)
                (aa) Joint accounts between resident and non-resident stockbrokers should be regarded as non-resident and subject to the securities control requirements. 
                (bb) Applications to settle profits and/or losses due to the foreign party to such joint accounts on four-way arbitrage deals for completed delivered transactions must be submitted to the Financial Surveillance Department quarterly. Copies of the joint accounts concerned must accompany these applications. 
        (iv) Primary listings offshore (#Heading)
            (a) Authorised Dealers may submit requests by major corporates to establish primary listings offshore. The following guidelines will, inter alia, be taken into account: 
                (aa) foreign expansion is necessary and integral to the company, given its size and the nature of its business; 
                (bb) a significant proportion of revenue is derived from outside South Africa, making the company in effect an international concern; 
                (cc) there are clear monetary and balance-of-payments benefits to South Africa; 
                (dd) a substantial advantage can be demonstrated over alternative approaches to raising the required capital; 
                (ee) the direct and indirect South African assets may not be encumbered; 
                (ff) South Africa's reserves may not be negatively impacted by an outflow of dividends or any other funds; 
                (gg) the corporate involved must commit itself to match any dividends declared to the foreign holding company with dividends paid out to South African shareholders to preserve balance-of-payments neutrality; and 
                (hh) all the South African operations and assets of the South African corporate or the proceeds thereof, as well as any other cash holdings, must remain in South Africa and may only be exported from South Africa if payable pro-rata to the non-resident shareholders of the listed holding company with the prior written approval of the Financial Surveillance Department. 
        (v) Offshore secondary listings and depository receipt programmes (#Heading)
            (a) Authorised Dealers may permit South African listed companies, to secondary list on foreign exchanges and/or list depository receipt programmes in the offshore market, subject to receiving the following confirmations: 
                (aa) admission to trade on the offshore exchange; 
                (bb) the shares/securities will be traded for cash only to non-residents and qualifying institutional investors subject to the prudential limit; 
                (cc) South African residents will hold their shares and/or securities and settle via the JSE Limited register, whereas non-residents will hold and settle their shares and/or securities via the offshore secondary register; 
                (dd) the proposed shares and/or securities comprising the secondary listing will form part of the locally listed company's share capital; 
                (ee) South Africa must remain the place of effective management for the locally listed company and under no circumstances may the company re-domicile; 
                (ff) the locally listed company will continue to be regulated in accordance with the rules and regulations of the JSE Limited; and 
                (gg) the locally listed company will remain a South African incorporated company. 
            (b) The locally listed company must furnish the Authorised Dealer with information regarding the ratio between the company's shares listed on the JSE Limited and the offshore exchange as a proportion of the locally issued shares. In addition, the envisaged percentage non-resident shareholding in the local company post the secondary listing on the foreign exchange must be provided.(c) Authorised Dealers must report annually to the Financial Surveillance Department details of the above-mentioned authorities granted. 
    (L) General (#Heading)
        (i) Nominees for non-residents (#Heading)
            (a) Authorised Dealers and their nominee companies are authorised to act as nominees. Any other person or company (including stockbrokers and trust companies) must obtain, through their bankers, the prior written approval of the Financial Surveillance Department to act in this capacity. 
        (ii) Brokerage rebates due to non-resident stockbrokers (#Heading)
            (a) Brokerage rebates due to a non-resident stockbroker by a resident stockbroker, in terms of the rules of the JSE Limited, may be transferred abroad against documentary evidence confirming the amount involved. 
    (M) Bearer securities (#Heading)
        (i) Regulations (#Heading)
            (a) The attention of Authorised Dealers is drawn to the provisions of Regulation 15, which prohibits the issue of, or any dealing in, bearer securities or bearer options, without the specific prior written approval of the Treasury. 
        (ii) Conditions of issue - Share or stock warrants to bearer (#Heading)
        Note: The term 'bearer warrants' used in this statement refers to both share warrants to bearer and stock warrants to bearer. 
            (a) Only companies that have obtained the prior written approval of the Financial Surveillance Department may issue bearer warrants on the following conditions: 
                (aa) Bearer warrants may only be issued to non-residents, in exchange for an equal number of registered shares of the same class and the conversion may be effected only against confirmation from an Authorised Dealer that the non-resident owned shares to be converted into bearer warrants were purchased locally with foreign currency or Rand from a Non-resident Rand account in the name of the non-resident and/or Rand from a vostro account held in the books of the Authorised Dealer. The bearer warrants must be endorsed 'Non-Resident'. (b) Shares purchased in the prescribed manner by a non-resident or on his/her behalf by a broker or by his/her duly appointed nominee in South Africa, may be converted into bearer warrants: 
                (aa) on application by such non-resident or his/her nominee in South Africa; 
                (bb) on application by the person who is the registered holder of the shares at the time they are acquired by the non-resident; or 
                (cc) on application by the holder of registered shares bearing the endorsement 'Transferable'. 
            (c) Where non-residents, by virtue of being registered shareholders or holders of bearer warrants in a company, are entitled as a right to take up shares in the same or another South African company, they may, if the latter company has obtained the necessary approval to issue bearer warrants, be issued against payment in foreign currency or Rand from a Non-resident Rand account in the name of the non-resident and/or Rand from a vostro account held in the books of the Authorised Dealer, with bearer warrants equal to the number of shares to which they are entitled. Before issuing the bearer warrants, the company concerned must be furnished with a certificate by an Authorised Dealer that payment for such shares has been effected in foreign currency or Rand from a Non-resident Rand account in the name of the non-resident and/or Rand from a vostro account held in the books of the Authorised Dealer. 
            (d) Bearer warrants may not be dealt in but must be converted into registered shares before being sold in South Africa on behalf of the non-resident beneficial owner. 
                (aa) In effecting reconversions into registered scrip, and in the event of such shares subsequently being re-materialised and issued in certificated form, such share certificates will be endorsed 'Non-Resident' and will be sent to the Authorised Dealer through whom the payment was made. 
            (e) All dividend payments made against coupons detached from bearer warrants are eligible for transfer abroad. Coupons received by Authorised Dealers on a collection basis may be similarly dealt with and should be presented to the issuing company as though the Authorised Dealer were acting as nominee. 
            (f) Subject to the provisions of (d) above, bearer warrants may be held in South Africa by a nominee of a non-resident, but in terms of Regulation 14(1)(b) no person may act as nominee for non-residents without the permission of the Financial Surveillance Department. Presentation of dividend coupons by a nominee must be accompanied by a declaration that the coupons are presented on account of non-residents. 
                (aa) The proceeds of coupons so presented less non-resident shareholders' tax, can thereafter be transferred to the non-resident abroad. The Authorised Dealer will require a declaration by the company that the payments are due to non-residents in respect of dividends on bearer warrants issued under these special arrangements. 
            (g) Bearer warrants must be distinctively printed and must bear the endorsement “These bearer warrants are issued with the approval of the South African Treasury under the Republic of South African Exchange Control Regulations”. The words 'South Africa' must appear prominently on all bearer warrants, talons and coupons so that the difference between these issues and previous issues may be easily recognised. 
            (h) Bearer warrants issued under these arrangements must be endorsed in terms of Regulation 14(2). 
    (N) The Derivatives Market of the JSE Limited (#Heading)
        (i) Authorised Dealers may credit or debit Non-resident Rand accounts of non-resident clients with margin payments due to or from JSE Clear (Pty) Limited in respect of their positions in derivatives instruments. 
        (ii) The terms and conditions pertaining to non-resident clients in their dealings on the Derivatives Market of the JSE Limited are prescribed in the Rules and Directives of the JSE Limited. 
        (iii) See section B.2(J)(v)(a)(aa) of the Authorised Dealer Manual with regard to the release of emigrants' remaining assets in respect of margin payments due to JSE Clear (Pty) Limited, on behalf of emigrant clients. 
    (O) Dual listing of entities within SADC and SADC depository receipts on the JSE Limited (#Heading)
        (i) Applications by foreign entities to list on the JSE Limited, as well as the listing of SADC depository receipts (SDRs) on the JSE Limited, must be submitted to the Financial Surveillance Department, together with full details of the proposed transactions. 



H. Inward listings on South African exchanges (#Heading)
    (A) Introduction (#Heading)
        (i) Instruments that offer South African investors exposure to foreign referenced assets in Rand terms must be listed on a South African exchange. The types of instruments include equity, debt and derivatives.  
        (ii) These instruments may only be denominated in Rand. 
        (iii) These foreign referenced instruments may not be offered to South African investors on an over-the-counter basis. 
        (iv) The listing of all instruments referencing foreign assets will require specific prior approval of the Financial Surveillance Department. 
        (v) An Authorised Dealer wishing to facilitate the cross-border reporting of inward listed transactions requires prior approval of the Financial Surveillance Department and will have to comply with the specific reporting requirements. 
        (vi) The inward listing policy may not be used as a mechanism for a South African company to re-domicile offshore. 
        (vii) The intention of the inward listing policy is to attract foreign direct investment to the domestic economy, grow market capitalisation and liquidity of South Africa's capital markets and support the enhancement of foreign investment diversification through domestic channels. 
    (B) Qualifying issuers of inward listed instruments (#Heading)
        (i) The following entities qualify to issue inward listed instruments on a South African exchange referencing foreign assets: 
            (a) non-resident entities; 
            (b) local Authorised Dealers; 
            (c) South African exchanges; and 
            (d) CIS managers registered under CISCA to administer collective investment schemes, limited to listing exchange traded funds referencing foreign assets.  
    (C) Investors in inward listed instruments (#Heading)
        (i) The following entities may invest in inward listed instruments without restriction: 
            (a) South African companies, trusts, partnerships and private individuals;  
            (b) bona fide non-residents. 
        (ii) South African institutional investors and Authorised Dealers may invest in: 
            (a) inward listed shares without restriction;  
            (b) inward listed debt and derivative instruments, subject to the full nominal or notional exposure being marked off against the prudential limit of institutional investors and macro-prudential limit of Authorised Dealers; and 
            (c) inward listed exchange traded funds, subject to the prudential limit of institutional investors and macro-prudential limit of Authorised Dealers.  
    (D) Classification of inward listed instruments (#Heading)
        (i) Approved inward listed debt and derivative instruments as well as exchange traded funds referencing foreign assets, traded and settled in Rand on a South African exchange, are classified as foreign. 
        (ii) Approved inward listed shares are classified as domestic.  
        (iii) Should an institutional investor or Authorised Dealer purchase the shares of an inward listed company on an offshore exchange in terms of prudential limit of institutional investors and macro-prudential limit of Authorised Dealers, the investment is deemed as foreign.   
    (E) Inward listed instruments (#Heading)
        (i) Inward listed shares mean the following products listed on a South African exchange: (#Heading)
            No | Product | Details 
            1. | Ordinary shares/equities including A, B and N shares | Shares which are listed on a South African exchange and settled in Rand. 
            2. | Preference shares/debentures | If the company is already listed on a South African exchange and the preference share/debenture is compulsory convertible. 
            3. | Linked units/participatory interest/ real estate investment trusts (REITS) and loan stock companies | If the company is already primary or secondary listed on a South African exchange. 
            4. | Exchange traded funds (ETFs) | An instrument that tracks a basket of shares, as long as they track an index or shares that are made up of companies already listed on a South African exchange. This must be valid for all the shares in the index. 
            5. | Warrants | As long as they represent an underlying share or basket of shares already listed on a South African exchange. 
            6. | Share instalments | As long as they represent an underlying share or basket of shares already listed on a South African exchange. 
            7. | Derivatives - Equities indices | A future or option that is listed against an index that represents companies already listed on a South African exchange. 
            8. | Derivatives - Single stock futures and options | A future or option that is listed against a single security of a company that is already listed on a South African exchange. 
            9. | Derivatives - Dividend futures and options | A future or option on a dividend of a company that is already listed on a South African exchange. 
            10. | Krugerrand coins | Listed and traded on a South African exchange in Rand. 
            11. | Current commodity derivatives (i.e. White Maize) | Listed and traded on a South African exchange in Rand. 
        (ii) Criteria for 'African' debt (#Heading)
            (a) 'African' debt encompasses debt securities issued and listed on a South African exchange by African governments, African public entities, African local authorities, African development agencies and by non-African development institutions where the funds raised are earmarked for use in Africa. 
    (F) Application procedure  (#Heading)
        (i) Requests by a qualifying issuer to inward list an instrument on a South African exchange referencing foreign assets must be referred to the Financial Surveillance Department through an Authorised Dealer, for consideration. 
        (ii) The application must include the following information, where applicable: 
            (a) specific details of the proposed transaction including the term sheet or prospectus of the instrument to be inward listed; 
            (b) utilisation and full reporting details of all transactions concluded in terms of a previous authority granted; 
            (c) name of the Authorised Dealer responsible for the facilitation of the special vostro-styled account;  
            (d) confirmation that the qualifying issuer will comply with the conditions set out in subsection H. below; and 
            (e) confirmation that the transaction has been cleared with all relevant regulatory authorities. 
        (iii) Requests to inward list a company's shares on a South African exchange for the purpose of raising capital should be accompanied by the following information relating to the applicant company, in addition to the information called for in (ii) above: 
            (a) the draft pre-listing statement or prospectus outlining the following information: 
                (aa) registration and incorporation details; 
                (bb) the nature of the business of the company; 
                (cc) location and value of the assets; 
                (dd) details of the place of effective management of the company; 
                (ee) details of major shareholders (five per cent and above) including the extent of the direct and indirect South African shareholding as well as the mechanism through which such shareholding was acquired, if applicable; 
                (ff) the latest audited financial statements, where applicable; 
                (gg) details on how and where the listings proceeds will be utilised; and 
                (hh) information whether the applicant company is registered as an external company in South Africa; and 
            (b) should the pre-listing statement or prospectus not contain any of the above requested information, same must then be included in the application. 
        (iv) Requests to utilise inward listed shares as acquisition currency must be accompanied by the following information, in addition to the information called for in (ii) and (iii) above:  
            (a) details on the trading history/track record of the applicant company; 
            (b) confirmation from an independent auditor that the transaction will be concluded on an arm's length basis and at a fair and market related price; 
            (c) details on how the acquisition will benefit South Africa; 
            (d) a copy of the pre and post structure of the applicant company; and 
            (e) details on how the balance of the transaction will be funded where the purchase consideration is partially funded by shares.  
    (G) Adjudication process (#Heading)
        (i) Requests to inward list instruments on a South African exchange referencing foreign assets will be considered by the Financial Surveillance Department on receipt of an application submitted through an Authorised Dealer taking into account, inter alia, factors pertaining to the overall national and economic interest of South Africa. 
        (ii) The compliance with the terms and conditions for the submission of an application to inward list an instrument referencing foreign assets on a South African exchange should not be construed as an indication that the application will necessarily be approved. 
        (iii) The Financial Surveillance Department could refer an application to the National Treasury for their consideration. 
        (iv) The Financial Surveillance Department will provide written notice of the decision in respect of an application to inward list an instrument referencing foreign assets on a South African exchange, to the applicant through an Authorised Dealer. 
    (H) Conditions applicable to inward listing approvals (#Heading)
        (i) The following conditions will be applicable to approvals in respect of the inward listing of shares: 
            (a) South African investors are required to hold their inward listed shares on a South African exchange and such shares may not be moved to an offshore exchange unless specific prior approval is obtained from the Financial Surveillance Department; 
            (b) as an exception to (a) above, private individuals may, as part of their single discretionary allowance and/or foreign capital allowance, export multi-listed domestic securities (including inward listed shares) to a foreign securities register in a jurisdiction where such securities are listed, subject to tax compliance and reporting to the Financial Surveillance Department via a Central Securities Depository Participant, in conjunction with an Authorised Dealer. In this regard see section B.2(B)(i)(o) and (p) of the Authorised Dealer Manual. 
            (c) the applicant company must appoint an approved Authorised Dealer to facilitate the reporting via the special vostro-styled account in respect of funds raised; 
            (d) the trade and settlement of inward listed shares may only take place at market related prices and in Rand terms, where applicable;  
            (e) all capital raised must be deployed within 30 days of being raised and recorded in the special vostro-styled account, in a manner that does not cause any distortions and/or volatility to the exchange rate; 
            (f) in the event of a capital reduction/share buyback transaction or the delisting of an inward listed company from a South African exchange, all South African shareholders must be paid in Rand in South Africa. A notification to this effect must be submitted to the Financial Surveillance Department for record purposes;  
            (g) South African investors may exercise their rights in terms of a rights offer without restriction; and 
            (h) the inward listing of any additional instruments will require the specific prior approval of the Financial Surveillance Department, e.g. the utilisation of shares as acquisition currency in the purchase of CMA assets; any capital raising exercise by means of a new issue; rights offer; the issue of new shares in lieu of a cash dividend. 
        (ii) The following condition, in addition to (i) above, is applicable to approvals in respect of the inward listing of shares utilised as acquisition currency to purchase CMA assets: 
            (a) the transaction must be concluded on an arm's length basis and at a fair and market related price. 
        (iii) The following conditions are applicable to approvals in respect of the inward listing of debt instruments: 
            (a) the applicant must appoint an approved Authorised Dealer to facilitate the reporting via the special vostro-styled account in respect of the funds raised; 
            (b) all capital raised, must be deployed within 30 days of being raised and recorded in the special vostro-styled account, in a manner that does not cause any distortions and/or volatility to the exchange rate; 
            (c) all settlements should take place locally in Rand; and 
            (d) the inward listing of any additional instruments will require the specific prior approval of the Financial Surveillance Department. 
        (iv) The following conditions are applicable to approvals in respect of the inward listing of derivative instruments:  
            (a) for every buyer there should be a seller; 
            (b) the loss for one party is paid as the profit of the counterparty; 
            (c) participants may not hedge their exposures by physically trading in the underlying referenced asset unless that particular asset is also inward listed on a South African exchange; 
            (d) all settlements of derivative contracts should take place locally in Rand; and 
            (e) the inward listing of any additional instruments will require the specific prior approval of the Financial Surveillance Department. 
        (v) The following conditions are applicable to approvals in respect of the inward listing of exchange traded funds by CIS managers:  
            (a) only exchange traded funds referencing foreign assets may be inward listed on a South African exchange by local CIS managers; 
            (b) the inward listed exchange traded funds will not be restricted in terms of the amount they can invest offshore; 
            (c) the approved inward listed exchange traded fund must be ring-fenced and not be included in the quarterly asset allocation report of the local CIS manager for prudential purposes;  
            (d) all subscriptions and settlements should take place locally in Rand; and 
            (e) the listing of any additional exchange traded funds referencing foreign assets will require the specific prior approval of the Financial Surveillance Department. 
    (I) Reporting requirements (#Heading)
        (i) All issuers of inward listed shares must furnish the Financial Surveillance Department through the Authorised Dealer concerned with the following information within three months after the authority granted has expired: 
            (a) details on the capital raised through an initial public offering; 
            (b) utilisation and full reporting details of all transactions concluded in terms of the authority granted; and 
            (c) confirmation that the intended benefits to South Africa have been realised. 
        (ii) Issuers of inward listed debt and derivative instruments referencing foreign assets must furnish the Financial Surveillance Department through an Authorised Dealer with the following information within three months after the authority granted has expired: 
            (a) details on the capital raised through an initial public offering, if applicable; and 
            (b) information on the deployment of the listing proceeds. 
        (iii) All secondary trades will be reported directly to the Financial Surveillance Department by the South African exchanges in terms of standing arrangements. 
    (J) Special dispensation to local brokers to facilitate the trading of inward listed shares (#Heading)
        (i) Local brokers are allowed to purchase inward listed shares offshore and to transfer such shares to the South African section of the register as a book-building exercise and to enhance liquidity on a South African exchange. 
        (ii) This dispensation is confined to inward listed shares and brokers may warehouse such shares for a maximum period of 30 days only. 


I.1 Local financial assistance to affected persons and non-residents (#Heading)
    (A) Introduction
        (i) Regulation 3(1)(e) and (f) prohibits the granting of local financial assistance to, as well as the acceptance of collateral from, affected persons and non-residents. 
    (B) General 
        (i) The lender is obliged to obtain exemption from the provisions of Regulation 3(1)(f). It is therefore the lender's responsibility to establish whether or not a prospective borrower is an affected person or a non-resident. 
        (ii) For ease of administration, any application for exemption from the aforementioned Regulation must be submitted in the name of the borrower. 
    (C) Affected persons availing of local financial assistance in respect of transactions other than financial transactions and the acquisition of residential property
        (i) Authorised Dealers are exempted from the provisions of Regulation 3(1)(e) and (f) and may grant or authorise local financial assistance facilities to affected persons without restriction. 
    (D) Affected persons availing of local financial assistance in respect of financial transactions and the acquisition of residential property
        (i) Authorised Dealers are exempted from the provisions of Regulation 3(1)(e) and (f) and may grant or authorise local financial assistance facilities to affected persons where the funds to be borrowed are required for financial transactions and/or the acquisition of residential property in South Africa, provided the 1:1 ratio applies, i.e. for every R1 in cash or assets that a non-resident introduces or owns, such non-resident may borrow an equivalent amount in the local market. 
        (ii) Financial transactions include, inter alia, the purchase and sale of any securities (listed or unlisted), repurchase agreements and any derivative transactions on securities. 
    (E) Non-residents
        (i) Authorised Dealers may grant or authorise local financial assistance facilities to non-residents in respect of bona fide foreign direct investment in South Africa without restrictions, except where the funds are required for financial transactions and/or the acquisition of residential or commercial property in South Africa, the 1:1 ratio will apply. 
        (ii) As an exception to (i) above, Authorised Dealers may grant or authorise local financial assistance facilities to non-residents living and working in South Africa in respect of the acquisition of residential property, subject to normal lending criteria. 
        (iii) Any facility being made available to a non-resident party must be secured by an unencumbered Rand deposit or Rand based asset of equal or higher value. In addition, any facility accorded to the non-resident in respect of the aforementioned may not cause the borrower to exceed 100 per cent of the Rand value of funds introduced from abroad and invested locally. 
        (iv) If facilities are granted for the acquisition of fixed property, such facilities may not be increased at any stage based on a revaluation of the property in question. 
    (F) Local financial assistance to affected persons or non-residents against a guarantee issued by an affected person or non-resident
        (i) Exemption from the provisions of Regulation 3(1)(e) is hereby granted to a local lender where such facilities granted are secured against a guarantee from an affected person or a non-resident. CFC and foreign currency account balances may also be accepted as security for local financial assistance. 



I.2 Local facilities to non-residents (#Heading)
    (A) Short-term trade finance extended by a local Authorised Dealer to a non-resident directly related to the export of goods or services from South Africa (#Heading)
        (i) In order to facilitate the export of goods from South Africa, the Financial Surveillance Department is prepared to permit local Authorised Dealers, on application, to extend short-term finance facilities denominated in Rand or a foreign currency to the non-resident importer or his/her banker abroad on the conditions mentioned below. 
            (a) Finance facilities denominated in Rand 
                (aa) The facilities must relate to the post-shipment finance of the export of a specific shipment of goods and at the time of drawdown, the local Authorised Dealer extending these facilities must view the prescribed SARS Customs Declaration. 
                (bb) The foreign currency proceeds eventually received in South Africa and/or payments received from any Non-resident Rand account, must be utilised to liquidate the aforementioned short-term export finance facility. The relevant Financial Surveillance Department requirements relating to the reporting in terms of the Reporting System and the observance of the 30-day rule must be complied with. 
                (cc) The overall finance period, including any initial credit granted by the exporter, may not exceed six months from date of shipment of the underlying goods from South Africa unless the dispensation outlined in section B.18(B)(i)(b) of the Authorised Dealer Manual has been granted, when the overall finance period, including any initial credit granted by the exporter, may not exceed 12 months from date of shipment of the underlying goods from South Africa. An export finance facility may be extended in the event of the overseas importer requiring an extension of the original credit period, provided that the overall finance periods set out above are not exceeded. 
                (dd) The facility must be repaid with foreign currency and/or by payment from a Non-resident Rand account. No facility may be drawn down where the proceeds of the underlying export transaction have already been received. 
            (b) Finance facilities denominated in a foreign currency 
                (aa) The facilities being extended must be funded, in turn, from foreign currency placements attracted and/or lines of credit obtained from correspondent banks abroad for that specific purpose. 
                (bb) The facilities must relate to the pre-shipment or post-shipment finance of the export of a specific consignment of goods. 
                (cc) The local Authorised Dealer extending these facilities must ensure that at the time of draw down, the foreign currency amount of the drawing is converted to Rand and the relevant Financial Surveillance Department requirements, including the reporting of transactions in terms of the Reporting System and the observance of the 30-day rule, are fully complied with. 
                (dd) The foreign currency proceeds eventually received in South Africa must be utilised to liquidate the aforementioned short-term export finance facility. 
                (ee) The overall finance period including any initial credit granted by the exporter may not exceed six months from date of shipment of the underlying goods from South Africa or unless the dispensation outlined in section B.18(B)(i)(b) of the Authorised Dealer Manual has been granted, when the overall finance period including any initial credit granted by the exporter, may not exceed 12 months from date of shipment of the underlying goods from South Africa. An export finance facility may be extended in the event of the overseas importer requiring an extension of the original credit period, provided that the overall finance periods set out above are not exceeded. 
                (ff) The facility must be repaid with foreign currency and/or by payment from a Non-resident Rand account. No facility may be drawn down where the proceeds of the underlying export transaction have already been received. 
            (c) In the application to the Financial Surveillance Department for approval to extend short-term foreign finance facilities, relating to the export of goods from South Africa, to non-residents, without obtaining our prior written approval in each instance, Authorised Dealers must undertake to observe the guidelines enumerated above and all other relevant Financial Surveillance Department directives. 
    (B) Finance facilities extended by a local Authorised Dealer not related to the export of goods and services from South Africa (#Heading)
        (i) Foreign currency denominated finance facilities extended to non-residents for utilisation outside South Africa in terms of section B.2(I) of the Authorised Dealer Manual are not subject to the requirements of Regulations 3(1)(e) and (f). 
        (ii) Rand denominated finance facilities extended to non-residents for utilisation within South Africa in terms of section B.2(I) of the Authorised Dealer Manual are subject to the conditions as outlined in section I.1 of the Authorised Dealer Manual. 



I.3 Borrowing abroad by residents (#Heading)
    (A) Fraudulent practices involving purported foreign loan facilities such as advance fee fraud (#Heading)
        (i) Any applications for foreign currency to meet the purported cost of raising fees or administrative charges in connection with any proposed borrowing abroad by residents must be referred to the Financial Surveillance Department for prior written approval with full details of the terms of the proposed loan together with the original documentary evidence submitted in support of the request. 
        (ii) Furthermore, should Authorised Dealers be approached by prospective borrowers with the request to issue, on the borrower's behalf, stand-by letters of credit or other forms of guarantees, make promissory notes or avalise promissory notes or other forms of debt instruments made by the borrower, in favour of the lender, all such requests must be referred to the Financial Surveillance Department for approval with full details as mentioned above. 
    (B) Authority to Authorised Dealers (#Heading)
        (i) Authorised Dealers may approve applications by residents, to avail of inward foreign loans and foreign trade finance facilities from any non-resident, subject to the specific criteria applicable to inward foreign loans being adhered to and that such loans are recorded via the Loan Reporting System. (#Heading)
        (ii) Reporting of loans (#Heading)
            (a) To facilitate the correct and accurate reporting of inward foreign loans and foreign trade finance facilities, a web based Loan Reporting System can be accessed from the South African Reserve Bank website: www.resbank.co.za, by following the links: Financial Surveillance>Authorised Dealers>Loan Reporting System. 
            (b) All loans reported via the Loan Reporting System will be monitored by the Financial Surveillance Department and any inconsistencies will be queried with the specific Authorised Dealer concerned. 
        (iii) Application requirements (#Heading)
            (a) All applications for inward foreign loans and foreign trade finance facilities must, inter alia, contain the following information: 
                (aa) full names of the local borrower; 
                (bb) identity number or temporary resident permit number or registration number of the borrower; (cc) full names of the foreign lender; 
                (dd) domicile of the foreign lender; 
                (ee) relationship between the foreign lender and the borrower; 
                (ff) denomination of the loan; 
                (gg) currency and amount of principal sum; 
                (hh) interest rate and margin; 
                (ii) purpose of the loan; 
                (jj) details of the type of security required, if any; 
                (kk) tenor. In instances where a loan will be repaid at a fixed future date, the date on which the loan will be repaid must be provided and, where a loan will be repaid in instalments, the date of the first instalment should be provided as well as the interval of the instalments, e.g. monthly/quarterly intervals; 
                (ll) copy of the loan agreement, if available/applicable; 
                (mm) full details of early repayment options, as well as currency switch options, if any; 
                (nn) in the case of foreign trade finance facilities, written confirmation from the borrower to the effect that the relative import or export transaction is not being financed elsewhere; and 
                (oo) detail of any commitment fees, raising fees and/or any other administration fees payable by the borrower. 
        (iv) Adjudication process (#Heading)
            (a) The following criteria must be strictly applied by Authorised Dealers when adjudicating applications for inward foreign loans and foreign trade finance facilities: 
                (aa) the tenor of each loan must be at least one month; 
                (bb) the interest rate in respect of third party foreign denominated loans may not exceed the base lending rate plus 3 per cent or, in the case of shareholders' loans, the base lending rate as determined by commercial banks in the country of denomination; (cc) the interest rate in respect of Rand denominated loans may not exceed the base rate, i.e. prime rate, plus 5 per cent on third party loans or the base rate, in the case of shareholders' loans; 
                (dd) the fixed interest rate linked to the base rate, if applicable, may not exceed the interest rate mentioned in (bb) or (cc) above. In this regard, approved inward foreign loans should always be adjusted accordingly in line with the set criteria 
                (ee) the loan funds may not be invested into foreign sinking funds; 
                (ff) no upfront payment of commitment fees, raising fees and/or any other administration fees are payable by the borrower; and 
                (gg) the above-mentioned fees may be paid from South Africa once the loan funds have been received and converted into Rand locally provided that such fees do not exceed 5 per cent of the principal sum. 
                (hh) early repayments may be effected offshore, provided that the relevant loans are fully drawn down, reported correctly on the Loan Reporting System and that there are no anomalies on the Loan Reporting System. 
        (v) Applications to be submitted to the Financial Surveillance Department (#Heading)
            (a) Authorised Dealers must submit an application to the Financial Surveillance Department for consideration in the following instances: 
                (aa) regularisation of all unauthorised inward foreign loans and foreign trade finance facilities; 
                (bb) loan draw-downs, capital and interest payments, where the funds originate from or are deposited to Non-resident Rand account. These transactions are not reportable on the Reporting System; 
                (cc) loan draw-downs, capital and interest payments in respect of foreign trade finance facilities for imports/exports where the transactions will not be reported; 
                (dd) any other instances where the Reporting System will not reflect changes to the original loan; 
                (ee) any other instances subsequent to the original loan approval to reflect changes to the original loan, interest rate, capital repayments to non-resident third parties other than the original lender on record with the Financial Surveillance Department and instances where funds are draw-down or are to be received from parties other than the original lender; 
                (ff) any unauthorised increase/decrease of the principal amount of the foreign loan; 
                (gg) capitalisation of interest; 
                (hh) compounding of interest; 
                (ii) conversion of the loan to share capital; 
                (jj) consolidation of loans; 
                (kk) all loans where commitment fees, raising fees and/or any other administrative fees exceed 5 per cent of the principal sum; 
                (ll) issuance of redeemable preference shares to non-residents; and 
                (mm) all cases where the criteria outlined in (iv) above cannot be met. 
        (vi) Capital repayments (#Heading)
            (a) Authorised Dealers may provide foreign currency for the repayment of inward foreign loans and foreign trade finance facilities, inclusive of loans and trade finance facilities approved by the Financial Surveillance Department prior to 2007-10-01, equal to the funds drawn down under a specific loan on the due date. Capital and interest payments must be reported separately on the Reporting System. 
            (b) Capital repayments must be strictly in accordance with the terms of the loan. 
            (c) In the case of foreign trade finance facilities, repayments of such facilities must be reported under category 106 or 801 and interest payments under category 309-06 of the Reporting System. 
        (vii) Guarantees (#Heading)
            (a) Authorised Dealers may issue guarantees in favour of non-resident lenders as and when required. 
        (viii) Draw-downs(#Heading)
            (a) Authorised Dealers must ensure that loan draw-downs, inclusive of any draw-down advices in respect of loans approved by the Financial Surveillance Department prior to 2007-10-01, are reported on the Reporting System or, where no flow of funds will take place, a suitable application advice must be submitted to the Financial Surveillance Department. 
            (b) The principal sum of the loan must be introduced within a period of 12 months and may not exceed the authorised amount of the loan. Any extensions in this regard, must be advised to the Financial Surveillance Department. 
        (ix) Retention of documentation (#Heading)
            (a) Authorised Dealers must be able to substantiate all information submitted via the Loan Reporting System. For inspection purposes, documentary evidence must be retained for a period of five years after the full repayment of the loan. 
    (C) Trade finance, long-term loans and working capital loans extended by Authorised Dealers (#Heading)
        (i) Short-term trade finance (#Heading)
            (a) Imports (#Heading)
                (aa) Authorised Dealers may, on application to the Financial Surveillance Department or unless exempted, extend short-term foreign trade finance facilities, relating to the importation of goods into South Africa to residents subject to the following conditions: 
                    (1) the facilities being extended by the local bank concerned are funded, in turn, from foreign currency placements attracted and/or lines of credit obtained from correspondent banks abroad for this specific purpose; 
                    (2) the facilities relate to the payment for the importation of a specific consignment of goods. In this regard, the local bank concerned may bundle a number of payments together when extending a short-term foreign trade finance facility, but must ensure that payments for the underlying transactions have been made not more than six weeks prior to the date of draw-down of the facility or that payments will be made within six weeks from the date of draw-down of the facility. In all instances the draw-down of the facility may only take place on or after date of shipment, except for advance payments where the draw-down can be done prior to the goods being shipped, provided that the advance payment complies with the provisions outlined in sections B.1(D)(i) and (ii) of the Authorised Dealer Manual; 
                    (3) the Authorised Dealer extending these facilities ensures that the underlying payments comply fully with the relevant Financial Surveillance Department authorities and directives, including the viewing of substantiating documentation and the reporting in terms of the Reporting System on repayment of the facility; 
                    (4) the overall finance period, including any initial supplier's credit taken, does not exceed 12 months from date of shipment of the underlying goods to South Africa; and 
                    (5) no such facility may be drawn down unless the supplier had been paid or will be paid with the proceeds of the said facility and no other financial commitment exists in regard to the underlying importation, except where a batch of import payments are being bundled into one draw-down under a short-term foreign trade finance facility. 
            (b) Exports (#Heading)
                (aa) Authorised Dealers may, on application to the Financial Surveillance Department or unless exempted, extend short-term foreign trade finance facilities relating to the export of goods from South Africa to residents, subject to the following conditions: 
                    (1) the facilities being extended by the Authorised Dealer concerned are funded, in turn, from foreign currency placements attracted and/or lines of credit obtained from correspondent banks abroad for this specific purpose; 
                    (2) the facilities relate to the pre- or post-shipment finance of the export of a specific consignment of goods; 
                    (3) the Authorised Dealer extending these facilities ensures that at the time of draw-down, the foreign currency amount of the drawing is converted into Rand and the relevant Authorised Dealer requirements, and the observance of the 30-day rule, are complied with. The reporting in terms of the Reporting System must take place upon the receipt of the export proceeds from abroad; 
                    (4) the foreign currency draw-down under a short-term export finance facility must be treated as the early accrual of the export proceeds, be converted to Rand and further administered as such. Should the exporter be required to effect any foreign payments specifically relating to the export transactions, such costs may be paid in foreign currency, without first being converted to Rand. Authorised Dealers must view suitable documentation pertaining thereto and ensure the correct reporting of the transaction in terms of the FinSurv Reporting System; 
                    (5) the foreign currency eventually received from the overseas importer is not converted to Rand, but is applied in repayment of the export finance facility; 
                    (6) where another Authorised Dealer has been instructed to receive the proceeds, it would pass these on to the Authorised Dealer extending the trade finance facility by crediting the latter's nostro account, thus ensuring that it is always possible to relate all outstanding facilities to specific current export transactions; 
                    (7) the overall finance period, including any initial credit granted by the exporter, does not exceed six months from date of shipment of the underlying goods from South Africa, unless the dispensation outlined in section B.18(B)(i)(b) of the Authorised Dealer Manual has been granted, when the overall finance period including any initial credit granted by the exporter may not exceed 12 months from date of shipment of the underlying goods from South Africa. An export finance facility may be extended in the event of the overseas importer requiring an extension of the original credit period, provided that the overall finance periods set out above are not exceeded; 
                    (8) the facility must be repaid with foreign currency. No facility may be drawn down where payment of the underlying export transaction has already been received; 
                    (9) in the event of the overseas importer paying before the relative export finance facility has fallen due for repayment and effecting an early repayment thereof is not possible, the local exporter may either retain these foreign currency funds in a CFC account to meet his/her export finance liability on due date, or alternatively convert such funds to Rand. Should the local exporter opt for the latter, the foreign finance facility must from then on be administered as a short-term working capital loan and be reported as such in subsequent monthly returns submitted to the Financial Surveillance Department; and(10) in the event the overseas importer does not effect payment or only makes partial payment, the balance outstanding must from then on be administered as a short-term working capital loan and be reported as such in subsequent monthly returns submitted to the Financial Surveillance Department, who must also be informed of the overseas importer's default. 
                (bb) The facilities enumerated above would not be included in the calculation of an affected person's local borrowing levels in terms of the provisions of Regulation 3(1)(f), provided that the facilities being extended by the local bank concerned are funded, in turn, from foreign currency placements attracted and/or lines of credit obtained from correspondent banks abroad for the specific purposes mentioned. 
        (ii) Short-term working capital loans (#Heading)
            (a) Authorised Dealers may, on application to the Financial Surveillance Department or unless exempted, extend short-term foreign currency working capital loan facilities, specifically relating to the financing of current assets, other than those arising from the import or the export of goods into or from South Africa, to residents on the following basis: 
                (aa) the facilities being extended by the Authorised Dealer concerned are funded, in turn, from foreign currency placements attracted and/or lines of credit obtained from correspondent banks abroad for this specific purpose; and the facilities relate to the financing of a resident's current assets other than those arising from the importation or the exportation of goods into or from South Africa. 
            (b) The facilities enumerated above would not be included in the calculation of an affected person's local borrowing levels in terms of the provisions of Regulation 3(1)(f), provided that the facilities being extended by the Authorised Dealer concerned are funded, in turn, from foreign currency placements attracted and/or lines of credit obtained from correspondent banks abroad for this specific purpose. 
        (iii) Long-term loans (#Heading)
            (a) In the event of an Authorised Dealer wishing to interpose itself locally and assume the funding of a capital goods import by substituting either local funding or shorter-term foreign currency finance facilities and, in so doing, bars direct utilisation of new long-term lines of credit, which were available for that specific purpose (by e.g. negotiating any bills of exchange or promissory notes, transferring or providing any security or acknowledging any debt), the Financial Surveillance Department's prior approval must be obtained, if not exempted. 
            (b) Should an Authorised Dealer in similar circumstances wish to interpose itself through a subsidiary or branch office outside South Africa, it may do so provided that such transactions are financed solely out of the offshore entity's own resources abroad. It follows that no funding may be provided from the CMA to the offshore entity to assist either wholly or partially, with the financing of such a transaction. Furthermore, such financing must run for the full credit period originally agreed and the resident debtor may not repay such financing at an earlier date, without the Financial Surveillance Department's prior approval. 
            (c) Authorised Dealers must obtain prior written approval from the Financial Surveillance Department before entering into export credit facility agreements with correspondent banks abroad. Furthermore, the prior written approval from the Financial Surveillance Department must be obtained for all facilities subsequently availed of under such agreements where the overall finance period, including any initial supplier's credit, exceeds 12 months from date of shipment of the underlying goods to South Africa. 
            (d) The facilities mentioned above would not be included in the calculation of an affected person's local borrowing levels in terms of the provisions of Regulation 3(1)(f), provided that the facilities being extended by the Authorised Dealer concerned are funded, in turn, from foreign currency placements attracted and/or lines of credit obtained from correspondent banks abroad for that specific purpose. 
    (D) Expiry of the debt standstill arrangements on 2001-08-15 (#Heading)
        (i) Authorised Dealers may continue to repay South African foreign debt covered in the '1994 Debt Arrangement Letter' dated 1993-09-09, provided that the applicant is in possession of a computer generated 'Standstill Authorisation Printout'. Any repayment request which is not accompanied by such printout must be referred to the Financial Surveillance Department. 
    (E) Corporate foreign debt issuance (#Heading)
        (i) Authorised Dealers may approve requests for foreign bond and note issuances by corporates with recourse to South Africa, e.g., a guarantee from South Africa and the issuance of shares in the South African entity, subject to the following conditions: 
            (a) South African private individuals may only participate in the foreign bond and/or note issuances utilising their foreign capital allowance. Similarly, qualifying South African institutional investors may participate in the foreign bond and/or note issuances in terms of the prudential limit. 
            (b) The coupon payable must be market related in the jurisdiction where the foreign bond and/or notes are issued. 
            (c) Where the foreign bond and/or note proceeds are being deployed offshore, all costs and expenses associated with the bond and/or note issuances as well as the servicing of the coupon payments and repayments of the principal amount must be serviced from offshore. 
            (d) Where the foreign bond and/or note proceeds are introduced into South Africa, the transaction must be recorded via an Authorised Dealer on the Loan Reporting System. 
            (e) Within 30 days of the bond and/or note issuances offshore, the Financial Surveillance Department requires to be advised of the uptake, the amount of capital raised and the all-inclusive cost of the bond and/or notes issued. 
            (f) The Financial Surveillance Department annually requires to be furnished with a report indicating the balance outstanding on the principal amount of the debt instrument. 
            (g) Should any guarantee issued from South Africa be called up, the Financial Surveillance Department should immediately be advised of the circumstances that gave rise thereto. 

J. FinSurv Reporting System (#Heading)
    (A) Introduction (#Heading)
        (i) The objective of the Reporting System is to ensure accurate and comprehensive reporting of all data by Authorised Dealers on transactions, irrespective of the amount, for compilation of: 
            (a) balance-of-payments statistics by the Economic Research and Statistics Department  of the South African Reserve Bank; 
            (b) foreign debt statistics and repayment profiles to support monetary policy decisions; and 
            (c) statistical information relating to the nature, volume and values of the various cross-border flows and to provide the appropriate information for economic and financial management decisions, as well as planning and policy formulation. 
    (B) Business and Technical Specifications document (#Heading)
        (i) The complete Business and Technical Specifications document can be downloaded from the South African Reserve Bank's website: www.resbank.co.za, by following the links: Financial Surveillance>Authorised Dealers>FinSurv Reporting System>FinSurv Reporting System documents>Business and Technical Specifications. 
        (ii) Once access has been granted, select 'Business and Technical Specifications, Version 3, FinSurv Business and Technical Specifications'. 
        (iii) Reporting entities must comply with the rules specified in this document which must be read in conjunction with the Authorised Dealer Manual. 
    (C) Operations Manual (#Heading)
        (i) The complete Operations Manual can be downloaded from the South African Reserve Bank's website: www.resbank.co.za, by following the links: Financial Surveillance>Authorised Dealers>FinSurv Reporting System>FinSurv Reporting System documents>Operational Manual.  
        (ii) Once access has been granted, select 'Operations Manual, Version 3, FinSurv Operations Manual'. 
        (iii) Reporting entities must comply with the rules specified in this document which must be read in conjunction with the Authorised Dealer Manual. 
    (D) Offshoring and cloud computing (#Heading)
        (i) For the purpose of this subsection, the following key concepts are outlined in the definition 3 below: (#Heading)
        #Definition 4
            Concept | Description 
            Business processes | Business processes refer to FinSurv related business processes which include, but are not limited to, on-boarding of customers, exchange control compliance, sanction screenings, releasing of cross-border payments and activities relating to reporting to FinSurv. 
            Data | Data refers to cross-border transactional data, customer information and digital images of documentation, e.g. documentary evidence obtained in terms of the Authorised Dealer Manual and ADLA Manual. 
            Customer information | Customer information is data captured in the centralised customer database of reporting entities which, inter alia, includes data captured during on-boarding of a customer, client identification and verification documentation as obtained in terms of the Financial Intelligence Centre Act, 2001 (Act No. 38 of 2001). 
            Transactional data | Transactional data is cross-border transactional data reported by reporting entities to FinSurv in terms of the provisions outlined in the Authorised Dealer Manual and ADLA Manual. 
            Digital images of documentation | Digital images of documentation include documentary evidence obtained and/or stored in an electronic format by reporting entities as outlined in the Authorised Dealer Manual, ADLA Manual or specified in terms of certain approvals granted by FinSurv.  
            Offshoring | Offshoring is the transferring of the business processes (including, but not limited to exchange control compliance), services, systems, data or infrastructure of the reporting entities to a branch or Head Office situated outside the borders of South Africa. 
            Cloud computing | Cloud computing is defined as a model for enabling convenient, on-demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources (e.g. networks, servers, storage facilities, applications and services) that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction. Forms of cloud computing may include a public cloud, private cloud, community cloud or hybrid cloud. Computers providing capacity can be in different geographical locations which may be subject to different laws, business practices and government oversight. 
            Local outsourcing | Local outsourcing is the subcontracting of business processes (including, but not limited to exchange control compliance), functions, services, systems, data or infrastructure of reporting entities, as contemplated in the Authorised Dealer Manual and ADLA Manual, to a third party within South African jurisdiction but not based at the premises of the relevant reporting entities. 
            International outsourcing | International outsourcing is the subcontracting of business processes (including, but not limited to exchange control compliance), functions, services, systems, data or infrastructure of reporting entities, as contemplated in the Authorised Dealer Manual and ADLA Manual to a third party situated outside the borders of South Africa. 
            Regulatory access to data | Regulatory access to data refers to FinSurv's access to data and systems. This includes access to transactional systems' front-end and back-end systems as well as folders, servers and databases. 
            System replication System replication refers to duplication of transactional systems' front-end and back-end systems as well as folders, servers and databases. This also includes the replication tools used to keep transactional systems' front-end and back-end systems as well as folders, servers and databases synchronised.  
            Data replication | Data replication refers to the process of copying data from one location to another, including the replication tools used. 
        #Definition 4 - end
        (ii) The Financial Surveillance Department is prepared to consider requests for the following offshoring and cloud computing models relevant to data, infrastructure and systems, as contemplated in the Authorised Dealer Manual: (#Heading)
            (a) offshoring within a reporting entity's international head office and/or group;  
            (b) cloud computing relating to data, infrastructure and systems; 
            (c) local outsourcing of data, infrastructure and systems; and 
            (d) real-time system and data replication to South Africa from an international head office and/or group. 
        (iii) The Financial Surveillance Department is not agreeable to the following offshoring and cloud computing models:  (#Heading)
            (a) offshoring, local and international outsourcing or cloud computing of functions, services and business processes as contemplated in the Authorised Dealer Manual; and 
            (b) any form of offshoring and cloud computing models where data is stored in a sanctioned country or in jurisdictions that may inhibit effective access to data.  
        (iv) Requests for utilising offshoring and cloud computing will only be considered, on a case-by-case basis, upon the submission of a formal application to the Financial Surveillance Department. (#Heading)
        (v) The following requirements must be adhered to: (#Heading)
            (a) Agreements (#Heading)
                (aa) A documented legally binding agreements or contracts must be concluded with the reporting entity's Head Office or any other third party that forms part of the proposed operating model. These agreements or contracts must state, but not be limited to, the following: 
                    (1) data relevant to the reporting entity will be ring-fenced from other activities of the data centre to be used and should stipulate how it will be achieved; 
                    (2) data will be retained for a minimum period of five years, as required by the Authorised Dealer Manual; and data will be accessible immediately, but not later than 48 hours, from the source systems and extractable in the format prescribed in (h)(gg) below. 
                (bb) Any amendments to the above agreements/contracts with regard to a change in the approved operating model requires prior approval of the Financial Surveillance Department. 
            (b) Risk assessment (#Heading)
                (aa) Prior to undertaking a particular offshoring and cloud computing initiative, a reporting entity must perform a risk assessment, which must be documented.  
                (bb) The risk assessment must identify all risks involved and determine whether adequate controls can be implemented to mitigate any potential risks. 
                (cc) A reporting entity must have documented processes and procedures in place to, on a continuous basis identify, assess, manage and mitigate risks associated with offshoring and cloud computing.  
                (dd) Risks must be adequately understood and managed prior to entering into an offshoring and cloud computing arrangement. Factors that must be addressed include, inter alia, continuity, data protection, regulatory access to data and regulatory compliance. 
            (c) Business continuity plan (#Heading)
                (aa) A reporting entity must satisfy itself that the data centre hosting the data must have extensive disaster recovery and business continuity processes and procedures in place.  
                (bb) Regular disaster recovery tests must be performed to ensure data can be recovered. 
            (d) Storage of data (#Heading)
                (aa) All data must be ring-fenced without the ability to be updated by unauthorised persons. 
                (bb) Cross-border transactional data must be stored directly into the source system, i.e. the core accounting system. 
                (cc) Customer data must be stored directly from the source system, i.e. the centralised customer database. 
                (dd) In an event of the reporting entity terminating its operations in South Africa for any reason whatsoever, data for five years preceding the date of termination, must be replicated to South Africa by the reporting entity in a format accessible by the Financial Surveillance Department and within an agreed period. 
            (e) Regulatory access to data (#Heading)
                (aa) Any data required by the Financial Surveillance Department must be made available for access immediately, but not later than 48 hours, by the reporting entity and should forthwith be furnished to the Financial Surveillance Department in the format prescribed in paragraph (h)(gg) below.  
                (bb) Information must be made available, upon request, at no cost to the Financial Surveillance Department. 
                (cc) The use of offshoring and cloud computing may not in any way infringe on the Financial Surveillance Department's mandated access to data. 
            (f) Jurisdiction (#Heading)
                (aa) A reporting entity must ensure that data is not stored in a sanctioned country or in jurisdictions that may inhibit effective access to data.  
                (bb) In considering foreign jurisdictions, a reporting entity must take into account the wider political and security stability of the particular jurisdiction as well as the legislative requirements in terms of the foreign jurisdiction concerned. This should include consideration of the legal enforcement provisions within a jurisdiction. 
            (g) Procedure to update data back to source (#Heading)
                (aa) From time to time a reporting entity may be required to amend certain data, e.g. balance of payments categories or cancel the reporting of a transaction. This might have an impact on the same source reporting principle, as all changes must be updated back to the source, i.e. transactional or accounting system.  
            (h) System requirements (#Heading)
                (aa) Data in any offshore data centre must at the least be encrypted through modern encryption technology. 
                (bb) All cryptographic keys used in a storage encryption solution must be secured and managed properly to support the security of the solution. 
                (cc) To prevent the non-recovery of encrypted data, extensive planning of key management processes, procedures, and technologies should be performed before implementing storage encryption technologies. This planning should include all aspects of key management, including key generation, use, storage, recovery and destruction. 
                (dd) Only authorised personnel and systems must be able to retrieve, decrypt and process data through any network or cloud. 
                (ee) The foreign service provider should have very strong, documented and tested cyber controls to protect data against cybercrime. 
                (ff) A reporting entity must verify adherence to the agreed information security requirements, i.e. through third party assurance audits and/or any other security testing requirements such as vulnerability scanning and penetration testing. 
                (gg) Data requested by the Financial Surveillance Department should be provided in a standard report format, as prescribed in the Authorised Dealer Manual, such as a semi-colon delimited file (e.g.CSV). 
            (i) Other regulatory bodies and legislative requirements (#Heading)
                (aa) A reporting entity must consider the offshoring and cloud computing models in the context of its overarching regulatory obligations, which may include obligations to the Financial Intelligence Centre and the Prudential Authority who have different statutory objectives and may, therefore, have different requirements. 
                (bb) A reporting entity must acquaint itself with the relevant provisions of the applicable legislation, e.g. the Protection of Personal Information Act, 2013 (Act No. 4 of 2013) and Financial Intelligence Centre Act, 2001 (Act No. 38 of 2001). 
        (vi) Applications to the Financial Surveillance Department should, inter alia, include the following: (#Heading)
            (a) confirmation that the reporting entity complies with the requirements and assurance set out in (v) above and (vii) below; and a copy of the business case which should outline, inter alia, the following: 
                (aa) proposed offshoring and cloud computing operating model; 
                (bb) details of all relevant offshoring and cloud computing third parties or service providers; 
                (cc) benefits and risks involved; 
                (dd) confirmation that the management and mitigation of risks is done in order to maximise the benefits through effective end-to-end governance practices; 
                (ee) jurisdictions where data will be stored; 
                (ff) service, deployment and security models of offshoring and cloud computing applicable to the different classifications of data; 
                (gg) how data loss and breaches will be dealt with; 
                (hh) procedure to ensure that the reporting requirements stated in the Authorised Dealer Manual are adhered to; 
                (ii) procedures to be implemented to accommodate requests to update data from the source systems; and 
                (jj) strategy to be implemented in the event that offshoring and cloud computing operations are required to be moved from one provider to another. 
        (vii) Assurances (#Heading)
            (a) The compliance with all the requirements listed in (v) above, must be contained in the Managerial Letter of Comfort to be provided to the Financial Surveillance Department on an annual basis. 
        (viii) Remedies (#Heading)
            (a) Any failure by a reporting entity to comply with the above mentioned requirements may result in the suspension of authorities provided by the Financial Surveillance Department or may cause the Financial Surveillance Department to invoke remedies available to it in terms of the Exchange Control Regulations. 
    (E) Inward payments (#Heading)
        (i) General (#Heading)
            (a) Authorised Dealers must ensure the correct reporting of all cross-border foreign exchange transactions irrespective of the amounts and currencies involved. 
            (b) Data pertaining to transactions must be submitted to the Financial Surveillance Department in the various formats outlined in the Business and Technical Specifications document within two business days from the value date of the transaction. 
            (c) Rejections by the Financial Surveillance Department must be corrected and re-submitted in the agreed format within one business day from the date of the rejection. 
            (d) Warning messages by the Financial Surveillance Department must be thoroughly investigated and actioned within one business day from the date of the warning message and, where required, the appropriate remedial actions must be taken. 
        (ii) Integrated form (#Heading)
            (a) The integrated form is applicable to all transactions reported under the 'BOPCUS', 'NON RESIDENT RAND' and 'BOPDIR' modules. 
            (b) Since transactions reported under the 'BOPCARD RESIDENT' module are fully electronic, the card-holder will be held responsible for transactions concluded by utilising either a debit or credit card. 
            (c) Transactions reported by reporting entities under the 'NON REPORTABLE', 'INTERBANK' and 'BOPCARD NON RESIDENT' modules do not require an integrated form. 
            (d) Authorised Dealers must make use of an integrated form in respect of all inward payments either in hard copy or electronic format, to obtain data required for the processing and reporting of all cross-border foreign exchange transactions to the Financial Surveillance Department. 
            (e) When the client is physically present at the Authorised Dealer, the integrated form must be completed and signed by the client in respect of all inward payments. 
            (f) When the client is not physically present to complete and sign the integrated form, the Authorised Dealer may complete and sign the integrated form either physically or electronically, provided that the Authorised Dealer has been authorised or mandated to do so by means of a letter, a facsimile message, an email message or by a recorded telephonic message to act on the client's behalf. The client's communication must be retained by the Authorised Dealer for a period of five years for inspection purposes. 
            (g) As an exception to the arrangement outlined in the preceding paragraph, an integrated form need not be completed by the client of an Authorised Dealer in respect of inward payments under R50 000 per transaction, subject to the following conditions: 
                (aa) only transactions in respect of a natural person who is a client of the Authorised Dealer, will qualify; 
                (bb) the purpose of the transaction must be disclosed in either fields 70, 72 or 77 of the SWIFT customer transfer message, in a clear and unambiguous manner; 
                (cc) where additional information is required to report a transaction, e.g. exports, loans, this procedure may not be applied; 
                (dd) all transactions must be reported in terms of the Reporting System in line with the requirements of the Business and Technical Specifications document; 
                (ee) where no official mandate is in place, a confirmation must be sent by the Authorised Dealer to the client on conclusion of each transaction, containing the reporting category and clearly stipulating that should the client not be in agreement with the category selected and reported to the Financial Surveillance Department, the client must dispute same within a period of 14 days; and 
                (ff) a copy of the communication to the client must be retained for a period of five years for inspection purposes. 
            (h) In cases where the client transacts with the Authorised Dealer via an electronic interface in terms of this dispensation, the Authorised Dealer must ensure that the underlying agreements legally bind the client in terms of the correctness of the information provided via the electronic medium. 
            (i) The above-mentioned dispensation does not apply to an ADLA. 
        (iii) Declaration (#Heading)
            (a) The following declaration must be included in the integrated form: 
            “I, the undersigned ……………………………………., hereby declare that: 
            1. I have read this document and know and understand the contents thereof; 
            2. the information furnished above is in all respects both true and correct; 
            3. the currency applied for will only be used for the specific purpose stated herein; 
            4. the documentation presented in support of this application is in all respects authentic;  
            5. I have been informed of the limit applicable to the above transaction and confirm that this limit will not be exceeded as a result of the conclusion of this transaction; and 
            I consent to this information being provided to the South African Revenue Service and/or the Financial Intelligence Centre.” 
    (F) Balance of payments categories applicable to BOPCUS AND BOPDIR - inward payments (#Heading)
        A balance of payment category consists of a category and in some cases a category and a sub-category is also applicable. 
        (i) Merchandise (#Heading)
            Transaction adjustments see Table 9
            #Table 9
                100 | Adjustments / Reversals / Refunds applicable to merchandise 
            #Table 9 - end

            Exports : Advance payments see table 10
            #Table 10
                101 | 01 | Export advance payment (excluding capital goods, gold, platinum, crude oil, refined petroleum products, diamonds, steel, coal, iron ore and goods exported via the South African Post Office)
                101 | 02 | Export advance payment - capital goods
                101 | 03 | Export advance payment – gold
                101 | 04 | Export advance payment – platinum
                101 | 05 | Export advance payment – crude oil
                101 | 06 | Export advance payment – refined petroleum products
                101 | 07 | Export advance payment – diamonds
                101 | 08 | Export advance payment – steel
                101 | 09 | Export advance payment – coal
                101 | 10 | Export advance payment – iron ore
                101 | 11 | Export advance payment - goods exported via the South African Post Office
                102 | 01 | Not allocated
                102 | 02 | Not allocated
                102 | 03 | Not allocated
                102 | 04 | Not allocated
                102 | 05 | Not allocated
                102 | 06 | Not allocated
                102 | 07 | Not allocated
                102 | 08 | Not allocated
                102 | 09 | Not allocated
                102 | 10 | Not allocated
                102 | 11 | Not allocated
            #Table 10 - end

            Exports: see table 11
            #Table 11
                103 | 01 | Export payments (excluding capital goods, gold, platinum, crude oil, refined petroleum products, diamonds, steel, coal, iron ore and goods exported via the South African Post Office)
                103 | 02 | Export payment - capital goods
                103 | 03 | Export payment – gold
                103 | 04 | Export payment – platinum
                103 | 05 | Export payment – crude oil
                103 | 06 | Export payment – refined petroleum products
                103 | 07 | Export payment – diamonds
                103 | 08 | Export payment – steel
                103 | 09 | Export payment – coal
                103 | 10 | Export payment – iron ore
                103 | 11 | Export payment – goods exported via the South African Post Office
                104 | 01 | Not allocated
                104 | 02 | Not allocated
                104 | 03 | Not allocated
                104 | 04 | Not allocated
                104 | 05 | Not allocated
                104 | 06 | Not allocated
                104 | 07 | Not allocated
                104 | 08 | Not allocated
                104 | 09 | Not allocated
                104 | 10 | Not allocated
                104 | 11 | Not allocated
            #Table 11 - end

            Exports: Other see table 12
            #Table 12
                105 | | Consumables acquired in port
                106 | | Trade finance repayments in respect of exports
                107 | | Export proceeds where the Customs value of the shipment is less than R500
                108 | | Export payments where goods were declared as part of passenger baggage and no UCR is available
                109 | 01 | Proceeds for goods purchased by non-residents where no physical export will take place, excluding gold, platinum, crude oil, refined petroleum products, diamonds, steel, coal and iron ore as well as merchanting transactions
                109 | 02 | Proceeds for gold purchased by non-residents where no physical export will take place, excluding merchanting transactions
                109 | 03 | Proceeds for platinum purchased by non-residents where no physical export will take place, excluding merchanting transactions
                109 | 04 | Proceeds for crude oil purchased by non-residents where no physical export will take place, excluding merchanting transactions
                109 | 05 | Proceeds for refined petroleum products purchased by non-residents where no physical export will take place, excluding merchanting transactions
                109 | 06 | Proceeds for diamonds purchased by non-residents where no physical export will take place, excluding merchanting transactions
                109 | 07 | Proceeds for steel purchased by non-residents where no physical export will take place, excluding merchanting transactions
                109 | 08 | Proceeds for coal purchased by non-residents where no physical export will take place, excluding merchanting transactions
                109 | 09 | Proceeds for iron ore purchased by non-residents where no physical export will take place, excluding merchanting transactions
                109 | 10 | Not allocated
                110 | | Merchanting transaction
                111 | | Not allocated
                112 | | Not allocated
            #Table 12 - end

        (ii) Intellectual property and other services (#Heading)
            Transaction adjustments see Table 13
            #Table 13
                200 | Adjustments / Reversals / Refunds applicable to intellectual property and service related items 
            #Table 13 - end

            Charges for the use of intellectual property see table 14
            #Table 14
                201 | Rights assigned for licences to reproduce and/or distribute
                202 | Rights assigned for using patents and inventions (licensing)
                203 | Rights assigned for using patterns and designs (including industrial processes)
                204 | Rights assigned for using copyrights
                205 | Rights assigned for using franchises and trademarks
            #Table 14 - end            

            Disposal of intellectual property (excluding computer related and audiovisual) 210 Disposal of patents and inventions see table 15
            #Table 15
            211 | Disposal of patterns and designs (including industrial processes)
            212 | Disposal of copyrights
            213 | Disposal of franchises and trademarks
            #Table 15 - end

            Research and development see table 16
            #Table 16
            220 | Proceeds received for research and development services
            221 | Funding received for research and development
            #Table 16 - end

            Audiovisual and related items Sales of original manuscripts, sound recordings and films see table 17
            #Table 17
            226 | Receipt of funds relating to the production of motion pictures, radio and television programs and musical recordings
            #Table 17 - end

            Computer software and related items see table 18
            #Table 18
            230 | The outright selling of ownership rights of software
            231 | Computer-related services including maintenance, repair and consultancy
            232 | Commercial sales of customised software and related licences for use by customers
            233 | Commercial sales of non-customised software on physical media with periodic licence to use
            234 | Commercial sales of non-customised software provided on physical media with right to perpetual (ongoing) use
            235 | Commercial sales of non-customised software provided for downloading or electronically made available with periodic licence
            236 | Commercial sales of non-customised software provided for downloading or electronically made available with single payment
            #Table 18 - end
                        
            Technical related services see table 19
            #Table 19
            240 | 01 | Fees for processing - processing done on materials (excluding gold, platinum, crude oil, refined petroleum products, diamonds, steel, coal and iron ore)
            240 | 02 | Fees for processing - processing done on gold
            240 | 03 | Fees for processing - processing done on platinum
            240 | 04 | Fees for processing - processing done on crude oil
            240 | 05 | Fees for processing - processing done on refined petroleum products
            240 | 06 | Fees for processing - processing done on diamonds
            240 | 07 | Fees for processing - processing done on steel
            240 | 08 | Fees for processing - processing done on coal
            240 | 09 | Fees for processing - processing done on iron ore
            241 | | Repairs and maintenance on machinery and equipment
            242 | | Architectural, engineering and other technical services
            243 | | Agricultural, mining, waste treatment and depollution services
            #Table 19 - end 
                        
            Travel services for non-residents see table 20
            #Table 20
            250 | Travel services for non-residents - business travel
            251 | Travel services for non-residents - holiday travel
            252 | Foreign exchange accepted by residents from non-residents
            #Table 20 - end

            Travel services for residents see table 21
            #Table 21
            255 | Travel services for residents - business travel
            256 | Travel services for residents - holiday travel
            #Table 21 - end

            Travel services in respect of third parties see table 22
            #Table 22
            260 | Proceeds for travel services in respect of third parties - business travel
            261 | Proceeds for travel services in respect of third parties - holiday travel
            #Table 22 - end

            Telecommunication and information services see table 23
            #Table 23
            265 | Proceeds for telecommunication services
            266 | Proceeds for information services including data, news related and news agency fees
            #Table 23 - end

            Transportation services see table 24
            #Table 24
            270 | 01 | Proceeds for passenger services - road
            270 | 02 | Proceeds for passenger services - rail
            270 | 03 | Proceeds for passenger services - sea
            270 | 04 | Proceeds for passenger services – air
            271 | 01 | Proceeds for freight services - road
            271 | 02 | Proceeds for freight services - rail
            271 | 03 | Proceeds for freight services - sea
            271 | 04 | Proceeds for freight services – air
            272 | 01 | Proceeds for other transport services – road
            272 | 02 | Proceeds for other transport services – rail
            272 | 03 | Proceeds for other transport services – sea
            272 | 04 | Proceeds for other transport services – air
            273 | 01 | Proceeds for postal and courier services – road
            273 | 02 | Proceeds for postal and courier services – rail
            273 | 03 | Proceeds for postal and courier services – sea
            273 | 04 | Proceeds for postal and courier services – air
            #Table 24 - end

            Financial services provided see table 25
            #Table 25
            275 | Commission and fees
            276 | Proceeds for financial services charged for advice provided
            #Table 25 - end

            Construction services see table 26
            #Table 26
            280 | Proceeds for construction services 
            #Table 26 - end

            Government services see table 27
            #Table 27
            281 | Proceeds for government services 
            282 | Diplomatic transfers 
            #Table 27 - end

            Study related services see table 28
            #Table 28
            285 | Tuition fees 
            #Table 28 - end

            Other business services rendered see table 29
            #Table 29
            287 | Proceeds for legal services
            288 | Proceeds for accounting services
            289 | Proceeds for management consulting services
            290 | Proceeds for public relation services
            291 | Proceeds for advertising and market research services
            292 | Proceeds for managerial services
            293 | Proceeds for medical and dental services
            294 | Proceeds for educational services
            295 | Operational leasing
            296 | Proceeds for cultural and recreational services
            297 | Proceeds for other business services not included elsewhere
            298 | Not allocated
            299 | Not allocated
            #Table 29 - end

        
        (iii) Transactions relating to income and yields on financial assets (#Heading)
            Transaction adjustments see table 30
            #Table 30
            300 | Adjustments / Reversals / Refunds related to income and yields on financial assets
            #Table 30 - end

            Income receipts see table 31
            #Table 31
            301 | | Dividends
            302 | | Branch profits
            303 | | Compensation paid by a non-resident to a resident employee temporarily abroad (excluding remittances)
            304 | | Compensation paid by a non-resident to a non-resident employee in South Africa (excluding remittances)
            305 | | Compensation paid by a non-resident to a migrant worker employee (excluding remittances)
            306 | | Compensation paid by a non-resident to a foreign national contract worker employee (excluding remittances)
            307 | | Commission or brokerage
            308 | | Rental
            309 | 01 | Interest received from a resident temporarily abroad in respect of loans
            309 | 02 | Interest received from a non-resident in respect of individual loans
            309 | 03 | Interest received from a non-resident in respect of study loans
            309 | 04 | Interest received from a non-resident in respect of shareholders loans
            309 | 05 | Interest received from a non-resident in respect of third party loans
            309 | 06 | Interest received from a non-resident in respect of trade finance loans
            309 | 07 | Interest received from a non-resident in respect of a bond
            309 | 08 | Interest received not in respect of loans
            310 | 01 | Income in respect of inward listed securities equity individual
            310 | 02 | Income in respect of inward listed securities equity corporate
            310 | 03 | Income in respect of inward listed securities equity bank
            310 | 04 | Income in respect of inward listed securities equity institution
            311 | 01 | Income in respect of inward listed securities debt individual
            311 | 02 | Income in respect of inward listed securities debt corporate
            311 | 03 | Income in respect of inward listed securities debt bank
            311 | 04 | Income in respect of inward listed securities debt institution
            312 | 01 | Income in respect of inward listed securities derivatives individual
            312 | 02 | Income in respect of inward listed securities derivatives corporate
            312 | 03 | Income in respect of inward listed securities derivatives bank
            312 | 04 | Income in respect of inward listed securities derivatives institution
            313 | | Income earned abroad by a resident on an individual investment
            314 | | Not allocated
            315 | | Not allocated
            #Table 31 - end        

        (iv) Transfers of a current nature (#Heading)
            Transaction adjustments see table 32
            #Table 32
            400 | Adjustments / Reversals / Refunds related to transfers of a current nature
            #Table 32 - end

            Current payments see table 33
            #Table 33
            401 | | Gifts
            402 | | Annual contributions
            403 | | Contributions in respect of social security schemes
            404 | | Contributions in respect of charitable, religious and cultural (excluding research and development)
            405 | | Other donations / aid to government (excluding research and development)
            406 | | Other donations / aid to private sector (excluding research and development)
            407 | | Pensions
            408 | | Annuities (pension related)
            409 | | Inheritances
            410 | | Alimony
            411 | 01 | Tax - Income tax
            411 | 02 | Tax - VAT refunds
            411 | 03 | Tax – Other
            412 | | Insurance premiums (non life/short term)
            413 | | Insurance claims (non life/short term)
            414 | | Insurance premiums (life)
            415 | | Insurance claims (life)
            416 | | Migrant worker remittances (excluding compensation)
            417 | | Foreign national contract worker remittances (excluding compensation)
            418 | | Value Transfer Service (Authorised providers - for statistical purposes only)
            419 | | Not allocated
            #Table 33 - end
        
        (v) Transfers of a capital nature (#Heading)
            Capital transfers and immigrants 

            Transaction adjustments see table 34
            #Table 34
            500 | Adjustments / Reversals / Refunds related to capital transfers and immigrants
            #Table 34 - end
            
            Capital transfers relating to government / corporate entities (excluding loans) see table 35
            #Table 35
            501 | Donations to SA Government for fixed assets
            502 | Donations to corporate entities - fixed assets
            503 | Investment into property by a non-resident corporate entity
            504 | Disinvestment of property by a resident corporate entity
            #Table 35 - end
            
            Capital transfers by non-resident individuals see table 36
            #Table 36
            510 | 01 | Investment into property by a non-resident individual
            510 | 02 | Investment by a non-resident individual - other
            #Table 36 - end
            
            Capital transfers by South African resident individuals
            Disinvestment of capital see table 37
            #Table 37
            511 | 01 | Disinvestment of capital by a resident individual – Shares
            511 | 02 | Disinvestment of capital by a resident individual – Bonds
            511 | 03 | Disinvestment of capital by a resident individual – Money market instruments
            511 | 04 | Disinvestment of capital by a resident individual – Deposits with a foreign bank
            511 | 05 | Disinvestment of capital by a resident individual – Mutual funds / collective investment schemes
            511 | 06 | Disinvestment of capital by a resident individual – Property
            511 | 07 | Disinvestment of capital by a resident individual – Other
            511 | 08 | Not allocated
            #Table 37 - end
            
            Disinvestment of capital in terms of investment allowance see table 38
            #Table 38
            512 | 01 | Not allocated
            512 | 02 | Not allocated
            512 | 03 | Not allocated
            512 | 04 | Not allocated
            512 | 05 | Not allocated
            512 | 06 | Not allocated
            512 | 07 | Not allocated
            512 | 08 | Not allocated
            513 | | Not allocated
            #Table 38 - end
            
            Disinvestment of capital to a resident Foreign Currency account see table 39
            #Table 39
            514 | 01 | Not allocated
            514 | 02 | Not allocated
            514 | 03 | Not allocated
            514 | 04 | Not allocated
            514 | 05 | Not allocated
            514 | 06 | Not allocated
            514 | 07 | Not allocated
            514 | 08 | Not allocated
            #Table 39 - end
            (Note: Categories 511/01 to 511/07 must be used)

            Disinvestment of capital see table 40
            #Table 40
            515 | 01 | Not allocated
            515 | 02 | Not allocated
            515 | 03 | Not allocated
            515 | 04 | Not allocated
            515 | 05 | Not allocated
            515 | 06 | Not allocated
            515 | 07 | Not allocated
            515 | 08 | Not allocated
            516 | | Repatriation of capital, on instruction by the Financial Surveillance Department, of a foreign investment by a resident individual in respect of cross-border flows
            517 | | Repatriation of capital, on instruction by the Financial Surveillance Department, of a foreign investment by a resident individual originating from an account conducted in foreign currency held at an Authorised Dealer in South Africa
            #Table 40 - end
            
            Immigrants see table 41
            #Table 41
            530 | 01 | Immigration
            530 | 02 | Not allocated
            530 | 03 | Not allocated
            530 | 04 | Not allocated
            530 | 05 | Not allocated
            530 | 06 | Not allocated
            530 | 07 | Not allocated
            530 | 08 | Not allocated
            531 | | Not allocated
            532 | | Not allocated
            #Table 41 - end

        (vi) Financial investments/disinvestments and prudential investments  (#Heading)

            Transaction adjustments - see table 41
            #Table 41
            600 | Adjustments / Reversals / Refunds related to financial investments/disinvestments and prudential investments
            #Table 41 - end
            
            Financial investments/disinvestments (excluding local institutional investors)
            Investment by a non-resident see table 42
            #Table 42
            601 | 01 | Investment in listed shares by a non-resident
            601 | 02 | Investment in non-listed shares by a non-resident
            602 | | Investment into money market instruments by a non-resident
            603 | 01 | Investment into listed bonds by a non-resident (excluding loans)
            603 | 02 | Investment into non-listed bonds by a non-resident (excluding loans)
            604 | | Not allocated
            #Table 42 - end
            
            Disinvestment by a resident corporate entity see table 43
            #Table 43
            605 | 01 | Disinvestment of shares by resident - Agriculture, hunting, forestry and fishing
            605 | 02 | Disinvestment of shares by resident - Mining, quarrying and exploration
            605 | 03 | Disinvestment of shares by resident - Manufacturing
            605 | 04 | Disinvestment of shares by resident - Electricity, gas and water supply
            605 | 05 | Disinvestment of shares by resident - Construction
            605 | 06 | Disinvestment of shares by resident - Wholesale, retail, repairs, hotel and restaurants
            605 | 07 | Disinvestment of shares by resident - Transport and communication
            605 | 08 | Disinvestment of shares by resident - Financial services
            605 | 09 | Disinvestment of shares by resident - Community, social and personal services
            605 | 10 | Not allocated
            #Table 43 - end
            
            Inward listed investments see table 44
            #Table 44
            610 | 01 | Inward listed securities equity individual buy back
            610 | 02 | Inward listed securities equity corporate buy back
            610 | 03 | Inward listed securities equity bank buy back
            610 | 04 | Inward listed securities equity institution buy back
            611 | 01 | Inward listed securities debt individual redemption
            611 | 02 | Inward listed securities debt corporate redemption
            611 | 03 | Inward listed securities debt bank redemption
            611 | 04 | Inward listed securities debt institution redemption
            612 | 01 | Inward listed securities derivatives individual proceeds
            612 | 02 | Inward listed securities derivatives corporate proceeds
            612 | 03 | Inward listed securities derivatives bank proceeds
            612 | 04 | Inward listed securities derivatives institution proceeds
            613 | 01 | Not allocated
            613 | 02 | Not allocated
            613 | 03 | Not allocated
            613 | 04 | Not allocated
            #Table 44 - end
            
            Prudential investments (institutional investors and banks) see table 45
            #Table 45
            615 | 01 | Disinvestment by resident institutional investor – Asset Manager
            615 | 02 | Disinvestment by resident institutional investor - Collective Investment Scheme
            615 | 03 | Disinvestment by resident institutional investor - Retirement Fund
            615 | 04 | Disinvestment by resident institutional investor - Life Linked
            615 | 05 | Disinvestment by resident institutional investor - Life Non Linked
            616 | | Bank prudential disinvestment
            617 | | Not allocated
            618 | | Not allocated
            #Table 45 - end

        (vii) Derivatives  (#Heading)
            Transaction adjustments see table 46
            #Table 46
            700 | Adjustments / Reversals / Refunds related to derivatives
            #Table 46 - end
    
            Derivatives (excluding inward listed) see table 47
            #Table 47
            701 | 01 | Options – listed
            701 | 02 | Options – unlisted
            702 | 01 | Futures – listed
            702 | 02 | Futures – unlisted
            703 | 01 | Warrants – listed
            703 | 02 | Warrants – unlisted
            704 | 01 | Gold hedging – listed
            704 | 02 | Gold hedging – unlisted
            705 | 01 | Derivative not specified above – listed
            705 | 02 | Derivative not specified above – unlisted
            706 | | Not allocated
            707 | | Not allocated
            #Table 47 - end


        (viii) Loan and miscellaneous payments  (#Heading)
            Transaction adjustments see table 48
            #Table 48
            800 | Adjustments / Reversals / Refunds related to loan and miscellaneous payments
            #Table 48 - end
            
            Loans (capital portion)
            Loans granted to residents see table 49
            #Table 49
            801 | Trade finance loan drawn down in South Africa
            802 | International Bond drawn down
            803 | Loan made to a resident by a non-resident shareholder
            804 | Loan made to a resident by a non-resident third party
            805 | Not allocated
            #Table 49 - end
            
            Loans repaid by residents temporarily abroad see table 50
            #Table 50
            810 | Repayment by a resident temporarily abroad of a loan granted by a resident
            #Table 50 - end
            
            Loans repaid by non-residents see table 51
            #Table 51
            815 | Repayment of an individual loan to a resident
            816 | Repayment of a study loan to a resident
            817 | Repayment of a shareholders loan to a resident
            818 | Repayment of a third party loan to a resident (excluding shareholders)
            819 | Repayment of a trade finance loan to a resident
            820 | Not allocated
            #Table 51 - end

            Miscellaneous payments see table 52
            #Table 52
            830 | Details of payments not classified
            831 | Not allocated
            832 | Rand drafts/cheques drawn on vostro accounts (Only applicable if no description is available)
            833 | Credit/Debit card company settlement as well as money remitter settlements
            834 | Not allocated
            835 | Not allocated
            836 | Not allocated
            #Table 52 - end



    (G) Outward payments (#Heading)
        (i) General (#Heading)
            (a) Authorised Dealers must ensure the correct reporting of all cross-border foreign exchange transactions irrespective of the amounts and currencies involved. 
            (b) Data pertaining to transactions must be submitted to the Financial Surveillance Department in the various formats outlined in the Business and Technical Specifications document within two business days from the value date of the transaction. 
            (c) Rejections by the Financial Surveillance Department must be corrected and re-submitted in the agreed format within one business day from the date of the rejection. 
        (ii) Integrated form (#Heading)
            (a) The integrated form is applicable to all transactions reported under the 'BOPCUS', 'NON RESIDENT RAND' and 'BOPDIR' modules. Since transactions reported under the 'BOPCARD RESIDENT' module are fully electronic, the card holder will be held responsible for transactions concluded by utilising either a debit or credit card. Transactions reported by Reporting Entities under the 'NON REPORTABLE', 'INTERBANK' and 'BOPCARD NON RESIDENT' modules do not require an integrated form. 
            (b) Authorised Dealers must make use of an integrated form, in respect of all outward payments either in hard copy or electronic format, to obtain data required for the processing and reporting of all cross-border foreign exchange transactions to the Financial Surveillance Department. 
            (c) When the client is physically present at the Authorised Dealer, the integrated form must be completed and signed by the client in respect of all outward payments. 
            (d) When the client is not physically present to complete and sign the integrated form, the Authorised Dealer may complete and sign the integrated form, either physically or electronically, provided that the Authorised Dealer has been authorised or mandated to do so by means of a letter, a facsimile message, an email message or by a recorded telephonic message to act on the client's behalf. The client's communication must be retained by the Authorised Dealer for a period of five years for inspection purposes. 
            (e) In cases where the client transacts with the Authorised Dealer via an electronic interface, the Authorised Dealer must ensure that the underlying agreements legally bind the client in terms of the correctness of the information provided via the electronic medium. 
        (iii) Declaration (#Heading)
            (a) The following declaration must be included in the integrated form: 
            “I, the undersigned……………………………………., hereby declare that: 
            1. I have read this document and know and understand the contents thereof; 
            2. the information furnished above is in all respects both true and correct; 
            3. the currency applied for will only be used for the specific purpose stated herein; 
            4. the documentation presented in support of this application is in all respects authentic; 
            5. I have been informed of the limit applicable to the above transaction and confirm that this limit will not be exceeded as a result of the conclusion of this transaction; and 
            6. I consent to this information being provided to the South African Revenue Service and/or the Financial Intelligence Centre.” 
    (H) Balance of payments categories applicable to BOPCUS and BOPDIR – outward payments (#Heading)
    A balance-of-payment category consists of a category and in some cases a category and a sub-category is also applicable. 

        (i) Merchandise (#Heading)
                Transaction adjustments see table 53
                #Table 53
                100 Adjustments / Reversals / Refunds applicable to merchandise
                #Table 53 - end


                Imports: Advance payments (not in terms of import undertaking) see table 54
                #Table 54
                101 01 Import advance payment (excluding capital goods, gold, platinum, crude oil, refined petroleum products, diamonds, steel, coal, iron ore and goods imported via the South African Post Office)
                101 02 Import advance payment – capital goods
                101 03 Import advance payment – gold
                101 04 Import advance payment – platinum
                101 05 Import advance payment – crude oil
                101 06 Import advance payment – refined petroleum products
                101 07 Import advance payment – diamonds
                101 08 Import advance payment – steel
                101 09 Import advance payment – coal
                101 10 Import advance payment – iron ore
                101 11 Import advance payment - goods imported via the South African Post Office
                #Table 54 - end

                Imports: Advance payments (in terms of import undertaking) see table 55
                #Table 55
                102 01 Import advance payment (excluding capital goods, gold, platinum, crude oil, refined petroleum products, diamonds, steel, coal and iron ore)
                102 02 Import advance payment – capital goods
                102 03 Import advance payment – gold
                102 04 Import advance payment – platinum
                102 05 Import advance payment - crude oil
                102 06 Import advance payment – refined petroleum products
                102 07 Import advance payment - diamonds
                102 08 Import advance payment – steel
                102 09 Import advance payment – coal
                102 10 Import advance payment – iron ore
                102 11 Import advance payment - goods imported via the South African Post Office
                #Table 55 - end

                Imports: (excluding advance payments and not in terms of import undertaking) see table 56
                #Table 56
                103 01 Import payment (excluding capital goods, gold, platinum, crude oil, refined petroleum products, diamonds, steel, coal, iron ore and goods imported via the South African Post Office)
                103 02 Import payment – capital goods
                103 03 Import payment – gold
                103 04 Import payment – platinum
                103 05 Import payment – crude oil
                103 06 Import payment – refined petroleum products
                103 07 Import payment – diamonds
                103 08 Import payment – steel
                103 09 Import payment – coal
                103 10 Import payment – iron ore
                103 11 Import payment - goods imported via the South African Post Office
                #Table 56 - end

                Imports: (excluding advance payments but in terms of import undertaking) see table 57
                #Table 57
                104 01 Import payment (excluding capital goods, gold, platinum, crude oil, refined petroleum products, diamonds, steel, coal, iron ore and goods imported via the South African Post Office)
                104 02 Import payment – capital goods
                104 03 Import payment - gold
                104 04 Import payment - platinum
                104 05 Import payment– crude oil
                104 06 Import payment– refined petroleum products
                104 07 Import payment - diamonds
                104 08 Import payment– steel
                104 09 Import payment– coal
                104 10 Import payment– iron ore
                104 11 Import payment - goods imported via the South African Post Office
                #Table 57 - end

                Imports: Other see table 58
                #Table 58
                105 Consumables acquired in port
                106 Repayment of trade finance for imports
                107 Import payments where the Customs value of the shipment is less than R500
                108 Import payments where goods were declared as part of passenger baggage and no MRN is available
                109 01 Payments for goods purchased from non-residents in cases where no physical import will take place, excluding gold, platinum, crude oil, refined petroleum products, diamonds, steel, coal and iron ore as well as merchanting transactions
                109 02 Payments for gold purchased from non-residents in cases where no physical import will take place, excluding merchanting transactions
                109 03 Payments for platinum purchased from non-residents in cases where no physical import will take place, excluding merchanting transactions
                109 04 Payments for crude oil purchased from non-residents in cases where no physical import will take place, excluding merchanting transactions
                109 05 Payments for refined petroleum products purchased from non-residents in cases where no physical import will take place, excluding merchanting transactions
                109 06 Payments for diamonds purchased from non-residents in cases where no physical import will take place, excluding merchanting transactions
                109 07 Payments for steel purchased from non-residents in cases where no physical import will take place, excluding merchanting transactions
                109 08 Payments for coal purchased from non-residents in cases where no physical import will take place, excluding merchanting transactions
                109 09 Payments for iron ore purchased from non-residents in cases where no physical import will take place, excluding merchanting transactions
                109 10 Not allocated
                110 Merchanting transaction
                111 Not allocated
                112 Not allocated
                #Table 58 - end

        (ii) Intellectual property and other services (#Heading)
            Transaction adjustments see table 59
            #Table 59
            200 Adjustments / Reversals / Refunds applicable to intellectual property and service related items
            #Table 59 - end

            Charges for the use of intellectual property see table 60
            #Table 60
            201 Rights obtained for licences to reproduce and/or distribute
            202 Rights obtained for using patents and inventions (licensing)
            203 Rights obtained for using patterns and designs (including industrial processes)
            204 Rights obtained for using copyrights
            205 Rights obtained for using franchises and trademarks
            #Table 60 - end

            Acquisition of intellectual property (excluding computer related and audiovisual) see table 61
            #Table 61
            210 Acquisition of patents and inventions
            211 Acquisition of patterns and designs (including industrial processes)
            212 Acquisition of copyrights
            213 Acquisition of franchises and trademarks
            #Table 61 - end

            Research and development see table 62
            #Table 62
            220 Payments for research and development services
            221 Funding for research and development
            #Table 62 - end

            Audiovisual and related items see table 63
            #Table 63
            225 Acquisition of original manuscripts, sound recordings and films
            226 Payment relating to the production of motion pictures, radio and television programs and musical recordings
            #Table 63 - end

            Computer software and related items see table 64
            #Table 64
            230 The outright purchasing of ownership rights of software
            231 Computer-related services including maintenance, repair and consultancy
            232 Commercial purchases of customised software and related licences to use
            233 Commercial purchases of non-customised software on physical media with periodic licence to use
            234 Commercial purchases of non-customised software provided on physical media with right to perpetual (ongoing) use
            235 Commercial purchases of non-customised software downloaded or electronically acquired with periodic licence
            236 Commercial purchases of non-customised software downloaded or electronically acquired with single payment
            #Table 64 - end
            
            Technical related services see table 65
            #Table 65
            240 01 Fees for processing - processing done on materials (excluding gold, platinum, crude oil, refined petroleum products, diamonds, steel, coal and iron ore)
            240 02 Fees for processing - processing done on gold
            240 03 Fees for processing - processing done on platinum
            240 04 Fees for processing - processing done on crude oil
            240 05 Fees for processing - processing done on refined petroleum products
            240 06 Fees for processing - processing done on diamonds
            240 07 Fees for processing - processing done on steel
            240 08 Fees for processing - processing done on coal
            240 09 Fees for processing - processing done on iron ore
            241 Repairs and maintenance on machinery and equipment
            242 Architectural, engineering and other technical services
            243 Agricultural, mining, waste treatment and depollution services
            #Table 65 - end
            
            Travel services for non-residents see table 66
            #Table 66
            250 Travel services for non-residents - business travel
            251 Travel services for non-residents - holiday travel
            252 Not allocated
            #Table 66 - end
            
            Travel services for residents see table 67
            #Table 67
            255 Travel services for residents - business travel
            256 Travel services for residents - holiday travel
            #Table 67 - end

            Travel services in respect of third parties see table 68
            #Table 68
            260 Payment for travel services in respect of third parties - business travel
            261 Payment for travel services in respect of third parties - holiday travel
            #Table 68 - end

            Telecommunication and information services see table 69
            #Table 69
            265 Payment for telecommunication services
            266 Payment for information services including data, news related and news agency fees
            #Table 69 - end

            Transportation services see table 70
            #Table 70
            270 01 Payment for passenger services - road
            270 02 Payment for passenger services - rail
            270 03 Payment for passenger services - sea
            270 04 Payment for passenger services – air
            271 01 Payment for freight services – road
            271 02 Payment for freight services – rail
            271 03 Payment for freight services – sea
            271 04 Payment for freight services – air
            272 01 Payment for other transport services – road
            272 02 Payment for other transport services – rail
            272 03 Payment for other transport services – sea
            272 04 Payment for other transport services – air
            273 01 Payment for postal and courier services – road
            273 02 Payment for postal and courier services – rail
            273 03 Payment for postal and courier services – sea
            273 04 Payment for postal and courier services – air
            #Table 70 - end
            
            Financial services obtained see table 71
            #Table 71
            275 Commission and fees
            276 Financial service fees charged for advice provided
            #Table 71 - end
            
            Construction services see table 72
            #Table 72
            280 Payment for construction services
            #Table 72 - end
            
            Government services see table 73
            #Table 73
            281 Payment for government services
            282 Diplomatic transfers
            #Table 73 - end
            
            Study related services see table 74
            #Table 74
            285 Tuition fees
            #Table 74 - end
            
            Other business services obtained see table 75
            #Table 75
            287 Payment for legal services
            288 Payment for accounting services
            289 Payment for management consulting services
            290 Payment for public relation services
            291 Payment for advertising and market research services
            292 Payment for managerial services
            293 Payment for medical and dental services
            294 Payment for educational services
            295 Operational leasing
            296 Payment for cultural and recreational services
            297 Payment for other business services not included elsewhere
            298 Not allocated
            299 Not allocated
            #Table 75 - end

        (iii) Transactions relating to income and yields on financial assets (#Heading)
            Transaction adjustments see table 76
            #Table 76
            300 Adjustments/Reversals/Refunds related to income and yields on financial assets
            #Table 76 - end

            Income payments see table 77
            #Table 77
            301 Dividends
            302 Branch profits
            303 Compensation paid by a resident to a resident employee temporarily abroad (excluding remittances)
            304 Compensation paid by a resident to a non-resident employee (excluding remittances)
            305 Compensation paid by a resident to a migrant worker employee (excluding remittances)
            306 Compensation paid by a resident to a foreign national contract worker employee (excluding remittances)
            307 Commission or brokerage
            308 Rental
            309 01 Not allocated
            309 02 Not allocated
            309 03 Not allocated
            309 04 Interest paid to a non-resident in respect of shareholders loans
            309 05 Interest paid to a non-resident in respect of third party loans
            309 06 Interest paid to a non-resident in respect of trade finance loans
            309 07 Interest paid to a non-resident in respect of a bond
            309 08 Interest paid not in respect of loans
            310 01 Not allocated
            310 02 Not allocated
            310 03 Not allocated
            310 04 Not allocated
            311 01 Not allocated
            311 02 Not allocated
            311 03 Not allocated
            311 04 Not allocated
            312 01 Fee in respect of inward listed securities derivatives individual
            312 02 Fee in respect of inward listed securities derivatives corporate
            312 03 Fee in respect of inward listed securities derivatives bank
            312 04 Fee in respect of inward listed securities derivatives institution
            313 Not allocated
            314 Not allocated
            315 Not allocated
            #Table 77 - end

        (iv) Transfers of a current nature (#Heading)
            Transaction adjustments see table 78
            #Table 78
            400 Adjustments / Reversals / Refunds related to transfers of a current nature
            #Table 78 - end

            Current payments see table 79
            #Table 79
            401 Gifts
            402 Annual contributions
            403 Contributions in respect of social security schemes
            404 Contributions in respect of foreign charitable, religious and cultural (excluding research and development)
            405 Other donations / aid to a foreign Government (excluding research and development)
            406 Other donations / aid to a foreign private sector (excluding research and development)
            407 Pensions
            408 Annuities (pension related)
            409 Inheritances
            410 Alimony
            411 01 Tax - Income tax
            411 02 Tax - VAT refunds
            411 03 Tax – Other
            412 Insurance premiums (non life/short term)
            413 Insurance claims (non life/short term)
            414 Insurance premiums (life)
            415 Insurance claims (life)
            416 Migrant worker remittances (excluding compensation)
            417 Foreign national contract worker remittances (excluding compensation)
            418 Value Transfer Service (Authorised providers – for statistical purposes only)
            419 Not allocated
            #Table 79 - end

        (v) Transfers of a capital nature (#Heading)
            Capital transfers and emigrants
            Transaction adjustments see table 80
            #Table 80
            500 Adjustments / Reversals / Refunds related to capital transfers and emigrants
            #Table 80 - end

            Capital transfers relating to government / corporate entities (excluding loans) see table 81
            #Table 81
            501 Donations by SA Government for fixed assets
            502 Donations by corporate entities for fixed assets
            503 Disinvestment of property by a non-resident corporate entity
            504 Investment into property by a resident corporate entity
            #Table 81 - end
            
            Capital transfers by non-resident individuals see table 82
            #Table 82
            510 01 Disinvestment of property by a non-resident individual
            510 02 Disinvestment by a non-resident individual - other
            #Table 82 - end
            
            Capital transfers by South African resident individuals
            
            Investment not related to the investment allowance see table 83
            #Table 83
            511 01 Investment by a resident individual not related to the investment allowance – Shares
            511 02 Investment by a resident individual not related to the investment allowance – Bonds
            511 03 Investment by a resident individual not related to the investment allowance - Money market instruments
            511 04 Investment by a resident individual not related to the investment allowance – Deposits with a foreign bank
            511 05 Investment by a resident individual not related to the investment allowance – Mutual funds / collective investment schemes
            511 06 Investment by a resident individual not related to the investment allowance – Property
            511 07 Investment by a resident individual not related to the investment allowance – Other
            511 08 Not allocated
            #Table 83 - end
            
            Investment in terms of investment allowance see table 84
            #Table 84
            512 01 Foreign investment by a resident individual in respect of the investment allowance - Shares
            512 02 Foreign investment by a resident individual in respect of the investment allowance – Bonds
            512 03 Foreign investment by a resident individual in respect of the investment allowance – Money market instruments
            512 04 Foreign investment by a resident individual in respect of the investment allowance – Deposits with a foreign bank
            512 05 Foreign investment by a resident individual in respect of the investment allowance – Mutual funds / collective investment schemes
            512 06 Foreign investment by a resident individual in respect of the investment allowance – Property
            512 07 Foreign investment by a resident individual in respect of the investment allowance – Other
            512 08 Not allocated
            513 Investment by a resident individual originating from a local source into an account conducted in foreign currency held at an Authorised Dealer in South Africa
            #Table 84 - end
            
            Investment from a resident Foreign Currency account see table 85
            #Table 85
            514 01 Not allocated
            514 02 Not allocated
            514 03 Not allocated
            514 04 Not allocated
            514 05 Not allocated
            514 06 Not allocated
            514 07 Not allocated
            514 08 Not allocated
            #Table 85 - end
            (Note: Categories 511/01 to 511/07 must be used)

            Re-transfer of capital repatriated see table 86
            #Table 86
            515 01 Not allocated
            515 02 Not allocated
            515 03 Not allocated
            515 04 Not allocated
            515 05 Not allocated
            515 06 Not allocated
            515 07 Not allocated
            515 08 Not allocated
            516 Not allocated
            517 Not allocated
            #Table 86 - end
            (Note: Categories 511/01 to 511/07 must be used)

            Emigrants see table 87
            #Table 87
            530 01 Emigration foreign capital allowance – fixed property
            530 02 Emigration foreign capital allowance – listed investments
            530 03 Emigration foreign capital allowance – unlisted investments
            530 04 Emigration foreign capital allowance – insurance policies
            530 05 Emigration foreign capital allowance – cash
            530 06 Emigration foreign capital allowance – debtors
            530 07 Emigration foreign capital allowance – capital distribution from trusts
            530 08 Emigration foreign capital allowance –other assets
            531 Not allocated
            532 Not allocated
            #Table 87 - end

        (vi) Financial investments/disinvestments and prudential investments (#Heading)
            Transaction adjustments see table 88
            #Table 88
            600 Adjustments / Reversals / Refunds related to financial investments/disinvestments and prudential investments
            #Table 88 - end

            Financial investments/disinvestments (excluding local institutional investors) 
            Disinvestment by a non-resident see table 89
            #Table 89
            601 01 Listed shares - sale proceeds paid to a non-resident
            601 02 Non-listed shares - sale proceeds paid to a non-resident
            602 Disinvestment of money market instruments by a non-resident
            603 01 Disinvestment of listed bonds by a non-resident (excluding loans)
            603 02 Disinvestment of non-listed bonds by a non-resident (excluding loans)
            604 Not allocated
            #Table 89 - end

            Investment by a resident corporate entity see table 90
            #Table 90
            605 01 Investment into shares by a resident entity - Agriculture, hunting, forestry and fishing
            605 02 Investment into shares by a resident entity - Mining, quarrying and exploration
            605 03 Investment into shares by a resident entity - Manufacturing
            605 04 Investment into shares by a resident entity - Electricity, gas and water supply
            605 05 Investment into shares by a resident entity - Construction
            605 06 Investment into shares by a resident entity - Wholesale, retail, repairs, hotel and restaurants
            605 07 Investment into shares by a resident entity - Transport and communication
            605 08 Investment into shares by a resident entity - Financial services
            605 09 Investment into shares by a resident entity - Community, social and personal services
            605 10 Not allocated
            #Table 90 - end
            
            Inward listed investments see table 91
            #Table 91
            610 01 Inward listed securities equity individual
            610 02 Inward listed securities equity corporate
            610 03 Inward listed securities equity bank
            610 04 Inward listed securities equity institution
            611 01 Inward listed securities debt individual
            611 02 Inward listed securities debt corporate
            611 03 Inward listed securities debt bank
            611 04 Inward listed securities debt institution
            612 01 Inward listed securities derivatives individual
            612 02 Inward listed securities derivatives corporate
            612 03 Inward listed securities derivatives bank
            612 04 Inward listed securities derivatives institution
            613 01 Not allocated
            613 02 Not allocated
            613 03 Not allocated
            613 04 Not allocated
            #Table 91 - end

            Prudential investments (institutional investors and banks) see table 92
            #Table 92
            615 01 Investment by resident institutional investor – Asset Manager
            615 02 Investment by resident institutional investor – Collective Investment Scheme
            615 03 Investment by resident institutional investor - Retirement Fund
            615 04 Investment by resident institutional investor - Life Linked
            615 05 Investment by resident institutional investor - Life Non Linked
            616 Bank prudential investment
            617 Not allocated
            618 Not allocated
            #Table 92 - end

        (vii) Derivatives (#Heading) 
            Transaction adjustments see table 93
            #Table 93
            700 Adjustments / Reversals / Refunds related to derivatives
            #Table 93 - end

            Derivatives (excluding inward listed) see table 94
            #Table 94
            701 01 Options – listed
            701 02 Options – unlisted
            702 01 Futures – listed
            702 02 Futures – unlisted
            703 01 Warrants – listed
            703 02 Warrants – unlisted
            704 01 Gold hedging – listed
            704 02 Gold hedging – unlisted
            705 01 Derivative not specified above – listed
            705 02 Derivative not specified above – unlisted
            706 Not allocated
            707 Not allocated
            #Table 94 - end

        (viii) Loan and miscellaneous payments (#Heading)
            Transaction adjustments see table 95
            #Table 95
            800 Adjustments / Reversals / Refunds related to loan and miscellaneous payments
            #Table 95 - end

            Loans (capital portion) 
            Loan repayments by residents see table 96
            #Table 96
            801 Repayment of trade finance drawn down in South Africa
            802 Repayment of an international Bond drawn down
            803 Repayment by a resident of a loan received from a non-resident shareholder
            804 Repayment by a resident of a loan received from a non-resident third party
            805 Not allocated
            #Table 96 - end

            Loans granted to residents temporarily abroad see table 97
            #Table 97
            810 Loan made by a resident to a resident temporarily abroad
            #Table 97 - end

            Loans granted to non-residents see table 98
            #Table 98
            815 Individual loan to a non-resident
            816 Study loan to a non-resident
            817 Shareholders loan to a non-resident
            818 Third party loan to a non-resident (excluding shareholders)
            819 Trade finance to a non-resident
            820 Not allocated
            #Table 98 - end

            Miscellaneous payments see table 99
            #Table 99
            830 Details of payments not classified
            831 Rand collections for the credit of vostro accounts
            832 Not allocated
            833 Credit/Debit card company settlement as well as money remitter settlements
            834 Not allocated
            835 Not allocated
            836 Not allocated
            #Table 99 - end

    (I) Reconciliation module (#Heading)
        (i) Reporting entities must make use of a straight through processing system, in an electronic format, which must daily account for all reportable and non-reportable transactions, including interbank transactions, reconciling all such transactions at the reporting entities and also reconciling the transactions submitted to and confirmed by the South African Reserve Bank. 
        (ii) In amplification of the above, the purpose is to ensure that there is reconciliation between the data on the general ledger/accounting system, the system used to submit data to the South African Reserve Bank as well as confirmation, from the South African Reserve Bank, that the data submitted was successfully received and stored. 
        (iii) The reconciliation module must be able to perform the following functions: 
            (a) compile the following daily reports from the general ledger/accounting system: 
                (aa) reportable transactions; 
                (bb) non-reportable transactions; and 
                (cc) interbank transactions; (b) compile a daily report of all reportable transactions reported to the South African Reserve Bank from the system used to transmit data to the South African Reserve Bank; 
            (c) electronically match the reportable transactions from the daily report referred to in (a) above with the actual transactions reported to the South African Reserve Bank referred to in (b) above; 
            (d) compile a daily report of transactions not matched between the general ledger/accounting system of the reporting entity and the system used to transmit data to the South African Reserve Bank; and 
            (e) the reconciliation module must be able to create the daily report referred to in (a), (b) and (d) above in Excel or text (semicolon delimited) format and must be forwarded to the South African Reserve Bank upon request. 
        (iv) The data required, as per point (iii)(e) above, must contain the following information: 
            (a) flow (IN or OUT); 
            (b) transaction reference number; 
            (c) branch code; 
            (d) value date; 
            (e) Rand amount; 
            (f) foreign amount; and 
            (g) foreign currency code. 
            (v) In cases where the reporting entities change the status of transactions between reportable and non-reportable, the reconciliation module must be updated to ensure that this manual intervention does not distort the reconciliation process. 
    (J) Systems governance (#Heading)
        (i) Inspection manual  (#Heading)
        The minimum information that should be contained in an inspection manual includes: 
            (a) a comprehensive flow diagram clearly depicting the flow of transactions through various systems (on-boarding, transactional, accounting and FinSurv Reporting System, including the Reconciliation Module) from capturing to submission of the transactions to the Financial Surveillance Department;   
            (b) an up to date list of definitions, contact details of the dedicated person(s) responsible for the reporting to Financial Surveillance Department, error handling and the Reconciliation Module; and 
            (c) suitable back-up procedures (i.e. how often, where, when, by whom, the duration of storage that should be minimum five years and recovery testing). Refer to the inspection manual specimen which is available from the website: www.resbank.co.za by following the links: Home>Financial Surveillance>Authorised Dealers>FinSurv Reporting System>FinSurv Reporting System documents>System Governance Templates or Home>Financial Surveillance>ADLAs>FinSurv Reporting System >FinSurv Reporting System documents>System Governance Templates. 
        (ii) Pre and post certification managerial letter of comfort (#Heading)
            (a) Pre certification managerial letter of comfort must be submitted to the Financial Surveillance Department prior to the inspectors conducting a systems certification of the on-boarding, transactional, accounting and FinSurv Reporting System, including the Reconciliation Module. The pre certification managerial letter of comfort provides assurance that the reporting entity's FinSurv Reporting System complies with the Financial Surveillance Department's reporting requirements. In addition, risks and controls around the systems are properly mitigated to ensure that correct, accurate and comprehensive data is submitted as well as that the respective system is ready for deployment into the production environment.  
            (b) Post certification managerial letter of comfort must be submitted to the Financial Surveillance Department after the on-boarding, transactional, accounting and FinSurv Reporting System, including the Reconciliation Module have been deployed in a live environment successfully for at least one month. 
            (c) These pre and post managerial letters of comfort should be completed by the dedicated person responsible for regulatory compliance in consultation with various governance structures within the reporting entity. Refer to the pre and post certification managerial letter of comfort specimens that are available as outlined in (i)(c) above. 
        (iii)  Annual managerial letter of comfort (#Heading)
            (a) The reporting entity must submit an annual managerial letter of comfort indicating that it is comfortable with the governance structures and functionality of the FinSurv Reporting System. The letter must be submitted to the Financial Surveillance Department annually within three months after the financial year end of the reporting entity.  
            (b) The dedicated person responsible for regulatory compliance must be accountable for completing the annual managerial letter of comfort and obtaining confirmation from assurance providers that the independent assurance review of the on-boarding, transactional, accounting and FinSurv Reporting System, including the Reconciliation Module will form part of its ongoing reviews. In this regard, the nature of the assurance procedure must be outlined. Refer to the annual managerial letter of comfort specimen that is available as outlined in (i)(c) above. 

K. Returns and reports (#Heading)
    The following returns and reports must be submitted to the Financial Surveillance Department by Authorised Dealers as required in terms of the applicable sections of the Authorised Dealer Manual: 
    (A) Return from insurance companies 
    See section B.10(D)(ii)(d) of the Authorised Dealer Manual. 
    (B) Returns of immigrants 
    See section B.5(B)(i)(a) of the Authorised Dealer Manual. 
    (C) Return of extensions granted to importers and exporters in terms of Exchange Control Regulations 11 and 12 
    See section F.2(C)(ii) of the Authorised Dealer Manual. 
    (D) Authorisation to travel agents, hotels, restaurants, shops and other persons whose business is directly related to the tourist industry 
    See section B.20(A)(iv) of the Authorised Dealer Manual. 
    (E) Return of South African Reserve Bank notes repatriated from countries outside South Africa 
    See section F.1(B)(iii) of the Authorised Dealer Manual. 
    (F) Report of overdrawn non-resident clearing accounts of foreign banks in excess of R25 million 
    See section E.(A)(ii)(c) of the Authorised Dealer Manual. 
    (G) Macro-prudential foreign exposure limit return 
    See section B.2(I) of the Authorised Dealer Manual. 
    (H) Report of active currency management regarding in-between trades in respect of beneficial holdings trading 
    See sections D.1(B)(i)(f) and (g) of the Authorised Dealer Manual. 
    (I) Report of active currency management regarding in-between trades in respect of forward rates applicable to each contract concluded 
    See sections D.1(B)(i)(f) and (g) of the Authorised Dealer Manual. (J) Return of missing application sequence numbers 
    See Section A.3(B)(xxii) of the Authorised Dealer Manual. 










